A black mass, which can act both liquid and as hard as stone. It can form one unified structure, or seperate into a million globules at will. It defies explanation, and offers none, save deceptive riddles. It simply _is_. 

It is sapient, yet has no noticeable sentience nor morality, all who have attempted to ordain its reason for existence have failed. Attempts at communication have been in vain. When it speaks, rarely, it speaks in riddles, and perhaps it is part of the mass' ploy, to eek out confusion and misery from us, to toy with us as we attempt to reason with it, preying that we fall victim to it.
We have no knowledge of why it chooses to be silent and dormant for decades at a time, nor why it becomes active at others, how it selects individuals to speak to, and why at any point it can return silent. This has led some people whom it was conversing with to break containment protocols and attempt to re-establish communication, perhaps this is its' ploy, as on a few occasions it has reached out once more, both passively and violently, while at others, to the great annoyance of some, it remained still silent.


It whispers. It speaks. It infects. It controls. It manipulates. It consumes. 

We can only estimate the age of this entity. It is likely tens of thousands, millions, or billions of years old, and arrived to this planet rather than evolving on it. Evidence for this can be found in analysis of hosts it has infected, with carbon-dating of the material ejected from the hosts having been unascertainable, despite being recently produced and excreted by the host. Further evidence can be noted in the largest collection of the mass, being placed directly beneath a runic site in what was once a meteoric crater, dated 220 million years ago. 
Addendum: The crater is unlike any others on earth, insofar that it is subterranean, buried underneath earth that does not appear to have been displaced. The surface above is sound, with a runic site in geologically undisturbed wilderness, and minimal evidence of external displacement, yet beneath the surface, the earth is turned in on itself in a winding and narrow cavern, as if burrowed into by the impact, and then, at the bottom of the cavern, "Ground Zero" of the entity can be found in a petrified subterranean ravine, with solid black extrusions holding what appears to be a meteorite or a core of stone in stasis, hanging near the top of the ravine.

In appearance, it prefers to take the appearance of a black assymetric structure, with a tumorous and bulbous exterior, bulging and with winding branches or tentacles stretching from the main mass. It remains static for the most part, yet we have observed that rarely, it will unhook one tendril from the ravine, and with great speed, smash it once again into a different part of the wall, for reasons we cannot say for sure, yet it is believed this is to either gague the surface above, using the vibrations of the earth like sonar waves to ascertain surface activity, as the piece remains rooted and static throughout, showing no signs of slippage, and remaining perfectly upright.







[when Katterin speaks to it, it unleashes all tendrils at once, dives to the floor, releases the tendrils and sprints at her, its white-hot eye fixated on her. all present in the room are killed in an instant, not even toyed with, but crushed by the tendrils. It stares into the very fibre of her soul.


At some point, she walks INTO the creature, at which time instead of being hard as stone, it instead is like walking through mist, and she enters the Void Realm. This creature is somehow linked to the Void, Tomás]