Project Pseudonyms: "On a Horse called Noble." "Project Irwell" "Albrythica Project"

If you need inspiration for things throughout your time away from Uni, your old chats with Tobias, James, and your late night film binges n all

Just a shame to let those inspirations go to waste init


Remember imagery for the book: The image of the shattered moon, a satellite covered in moss, the celtic runestones,  the ideas for maps. The cities, most of which are underground, with the surface and seaports covered in domes to protect from the weather

Also, you've got shit in the Google Docs not in here, and here, needs moving to google docs. So, chop chop


ALSO ALSO you made 3 new .txt files with all of the info on there now.



tigs story starts in his room half awake half asleep dreaming of better days
starts his arc alone and depressed
dreaming of her

in time he gets the impetus to do more for himself and stop doing menial jobs
he tells others in the city of how he wants to do more and yet in his actions he doesnt, he is post apoc wagie


then
impetus
what could it be

cyberpunk gang heist seen?
the destruction of his home?
brainstorm this



Tig argues with his mentor, the one who brought him from where
he started to where he is now,
they disagree on a major action in the climax of the novel
Tig has to stop him despite him being the one who brought him
into this in the first place,
cause what they're doing is wrong


STALKER INSPIRATION


THE PLAYER'S FACTION IS DYNAMIC.

He is not a "Free Stalker" Per-se, but his faction ebbs and flows based on the decisions you make.
Think, Clear Sky. They COULD be enemies with Duty, and ally with Freedom, or they could stay neutral.

Decisions will impact OTHER faction's relations to yours, as well as the relationships between other people in the faction.
Morally balanced- Your ethics will shift who you get along with. Morally-driven characters will dislike you doing immoral acts.
Morally grey decisions will be hard because of this.

THEN there's the individual character's decisions. You may not agree with a decision but go along with it for the sake of FACTIONAL peace or you could be an Ideological Crusader and lead by your own moral code, with all the consequences that come along with it.
(In the Game Pitch, this will be mentioned. Your decisions, and whatever rationale you use to justify them, will impact the Relations with other factions, and the world around you, and how your faction is viewed externally, AS WELL as internal faction dynamics.)

In Short. C H O I C E S  M A T T E R


ANOMALIES - Radioactive & Chemical & Psionic. NOT HEAT NOT ELECTRICAL NOT GRAVITATIONAL. 
Don't rip it all off, just use what makes sense for a post-apocalypse.


GAS MASKS;
Outside of the settlements, it is necessary that everyone have a gas mask and keep it well maintained. Toxins are around every corner in areas not well managed. This can be a way to build world borders; Radiatioactive zones that will kill the player if they do not heed the warnings and try and go past them, as well as hard borders. 
-This circumvents the need for a lot of invisible walls.-


A DYNAMIC WORLD.
Unscripted enemy encounters and weather as well as a hazardous environment that forces you to follow a "Slow is Fast" methodical approach. Sprinting around will get you killed, you have to look out for hazards, hostile factions, bandits, and mutants.

The goal of this is to create player anxiety and immersion, constantly on edge and therefore invested into focusing into the core gameplay loop.


HARDCORE

Enemies die in one hit if you hit them in the right spot.
So can you.


STASHES and POIs

Enemy PDAs and Quest Completion also have a bonus incentive; Stashes. The player is given these locations in different areas of the world, hidden pieces of loot, and hidden chests.
You can also discover some by yourself, though ones given from Quests and Enemy PDAs contain bonus loot.
This encourages the player to explore the world at times, meaning there is more to do beyond B-Lining to quests.

POIs work as areas in the map where the player can interact with characters, find easter eggs, and see general worldbuilding.




PROGRESSION

A Maguffin is needed to progress. Like the "Psy Helmet."

Do a few missions for the Boffins, they build you a maguffin. OR you can buy it. [Player Choice]



The Maguffin lets you enter new parts of the maps for story reasons. Once you get the Maguffin, you must destroy something akin to the "Brain Scorcher" and clear out a bunker and then new parts of the world open up.

You are now in the Mid-Game.







IN REGARDS TO PROTAGONIST/PLAYER DESIGN

I like Cyberpunk's "V" and the Origins you can pick.
This would be hard to do on a small budget as it would need a lot of thought put into it, and you'd have to find ways to build it into the storyline, say, for if the protagonist is X Y Z, the dialogue options would need to lend creedence to this, and it'd need to be USEFUL.

Or, you can go with a "Geralt" approach, and have your main character who impacts the choices naturally, as ONE set person, that you choose the choices for.

As for appearance, both would allow you to pick it? Just have all the concept art show someone with the Parka and Gas Mask.




An additional concept - Disguises.
Patches on your outfit can disguise you.




WEATHER

Emissions.
Do they occur from Sheffield? Are they global?
Do they only occur after the Gods appear?
Or do they get WORSE when the gods appear?





CYBORGS 
Some (STALKERS) undergo cybernetic augmentation to make them stronger, to replace lost limbs, to give them better eyesight, to restore hearing, though, many such modifications are not exactly "healthy" so it's only an upgrade in a certain sense. For instance, the body can reject the new cybernetics and can cause terrible pain, plus you need special medication if you have any in you, to stop your body rejecting the synthetic cells needed to bind metal to man.







Identity Warfare & Control.

People are treated as feudal property or conscripts depending on where they are. 



They have IDs, and if stopped by police, have to show their passport unless they will be arrested on sight and detained and sent to the labour camps.

They are property.
Some, with means, were gifted such by the "Land Redistribution Protocol" to fill empty houses. And those with power or their own homes that weren't affected by the Apocalypse. Others, don't.
They live their mundane jobs, they work day to day, and keep their heads down, stick with their community. Those who are arrested are often not tried.

How this came about?
After the bombs dropped, everyone was scattered, displaced. Many were moved, many roamed, and the emergency council set a decree forcing all those to re-document themselves, their dwelling. This came to pass and most, not all, were documented with IDs (think, chain-codes) These came to be used to limit movement and identify people and control them. You cannot get state assistance, rations, nor a legal residence without one. To participate in society, you need an ID now. 

(In Socialist revolutions, they are espoused as workers, but they are still treated poorly, despite all the claims of winning the war on production to spread the revolution to the rest of the Archipelago. 
Then, when the Anarchists revolt against the Maximists, They espouse the idea of centrally controlled IDs. They're Anarchists, as if they'd support such a system.)



The Warlord Era

Before the collapse, a period of great upheaval was occuring within the Commonwealth. Factions of Conservatives and Progressives embattled politically, arguing for reform, or tradition. Issues such as migration, economics, progressive social ideology versus religious conservatism were primary issues, and some went as far as to question the war as an act of jingoism, though, they were arrested and thought to be subversive revolutionaries.

There was even the deployment of troops to [North America] to prevent uprising, which succeded, and they gained greater dominionisation and devolution away from the crown in exchange for political loyalty.

OR

Was there an uprising, the colonial wars, a seperatist movement, which caused Albion to shrink from its ground on the continent, which was lapped up by powers taking advantage of Albion's shirked commitments (Appeasement)
Then ww2
and Albion is weaker than ever after just scraping a victory by on both fronts


or
is this the apocalypse

think tomas


When the collapse occured, the political rift formed into a fracture; the first deeds are lost to time, but the ends are obvious to anyone with an ounce of political literacy. Factions with militaries, with armed staff, became warlords. Those without the means to back up their ideology, collapsed.
Warlords, they controlled their land. Ran it, either as Corporate Neofeudalist states (Summerisle), as Military Juntas, et cetera. Some even had successful revolutions overthrow the governments, forming socialist "utopias." It matters not the flavour, If you had the means, you could hold your own rump state. This is how the borders were formed while the Emergency Council was arranged. This is how the Commonwealth dissolved, how Federation was overtaken by independent warlords, how we see the emergence of No Man's Lands reaped of all value, and concentrated and centralised governances, walled off from the outside, and opressed from within.





Small town stadiums, with refugee camps, covered in graffiti, now long abandoned.
Someone went through here and killed them all, some dead in their tents, others gunned down as they ran. Raided, ransacked, pilfered, defiled.







Even more experienced people are scared.
Skilled reinforcements WIPED near instantly.
Panic


Finally the order

a flare gun

cutscene ends.


KEEP RUNNING

Hear the comms

Fireteams keep dying

Shut up and obey orders
keep going, do not question
because you're new
emphasise that







