INIS = Island
TIR = Country, Land, Nation.


In the beginning, there were the Seven Inis, the Seven Lands, led by Clans and Chiefs, and Rí, or Kings, in the modern tongue. 
To the West, the Gaels of Tir Gáel. Of these, Ullainster, [Connaught] [Munster] [Leinster] encompassed  [Explain them.]

Spanning the Sea of Gaels, the Kingdom of Rí Hebrid. A Mercantile folk, they gained their wealth through the trade of gold, bronze, wool, and between what is now the Hebrides of Calebrythia and 



There was an ancient empire of Tiberia [Rome?] that invaded the islands. They were resisted, and cast back to the continent, dying out shortly thereafter to invaders from the East and North, opening the Era of Darkness. 

Then came the Dieterfolk. Having overthrown the Tiberians and established their Jarldoms on the Nordsea, they arrived on longboats. First they conquered the far isles, then moved in to torch and pillage the mainland. In time, they left in the same fashion they arrived, though, not without leaving lasting scars in the populace of the High North. Their Jarldoms of Norrlånd and Vastlånd established themselves on the Tir Gáel and in [Northumbria] as extractive slaver-kingdoms, and helped weaken the isles at a time when unity was needed.

For next came the Arcadians, whom tried to instill their one true, false god, and conquer where the Tiberians had failed, for their Caesar.
Through steel they were repelled with but a handful of rocks to show for their effort. But in time the Southern Kingdom of Sanglia merged with the Arcadians, after a pact to oust the Dieters, and a royal marriage to seal the deal. Their progeny, the Antagenie as they came to be known, vowed to unite the isles for their god, and bring us in line with the continentals.

One by one, the kingdoms of Albrythica fell, through conquest, subversion, division, and conversion. One by one, our culture was erased and the true gods replaced, with the Goidelic islands of Tir Gáel and the clans of Calebrythia as rump states for the Germanics, with their only freedoms being religious in nature, their people used as slaver-colonists for an expanding Nordsea Realm, known as the Nordreich. The Brythonic 
 and [England-Wales? Give it a name] the Old North and  In time, even the Caledrians were subdued, their lands sacked, their people forcefully converted, and their nobility tarnished or sent scurrying for the highlands to live out meagre existences as roving bands, loyal only to a dream of freedom. 
Minor uprisings such as the Bruises' and Uallases' risings enraged the Antagenets, and they ordered the decimation of Calebrythia. 


The Rising changed all that.

The Rising. To this day remnants of this past, from the moats of old to the language we speak today, still reflect this glorious revolution. The Parliamentarians (as they came to be known) overthrew this dynasty, and within seventeen winters, proclaimed the Commonwealth of Albrythica, and a return to the confederation of baronies, with lords loyal to the insurrection given seats in what became known as the "Confederation Parliament."
In this time, the first Toiseach in an era was crowned, and given the name of Caledwell by the People, meaning the well of the High North. The Antagenet High King was beheaded, and his progeny were arrested, and given an ultimatum of exile or fealty.

This radical movement all but destroyed our reputation with the Continentals, and scorned as they were, they sent an armada. The "Green Revolution" came to our shores.
And again, we resisted, and drove them into the sea. 



[Okay, now talk about Scotland and Ireland]


















[After bombs fall, the cultists are the One God followers. Their god is vengeful, and a new testament is written praising technology.]