THE STORY. CHARACTERS INTERACTING WITH WORLD MAKE STORY.





Think how Warhammer has 40k as Space Fantasy, and Fallout has Nuclear American Dream Red Scare fantasy, this is Near Future Fantasy, Modpunk, Solarpunk, and Climate Change Horror, for British-Irish culture, known as Albrythica, with a reimagined map, a reimagined alternate history of a Celtic britain, and of a completely different European history, and British Empire, spanning from America, to the West, to the Indies in the East. This empire, which never fell off, and effectively ruled 1/4 of the world, yet there was division in Europe over Albion's dominance.


It has been 11 years [since the bombs dropped? ; The Federated society is no more, and in its' stead, it has become heavily confederalised and decentralised as regions are still reeling and trying to recover, and without central leadership efforts to interconnect are sidelined for inward growth.
Each region, city,  town, looks after itself and attempts to expand are more often tall rather than wide. Why expand outwards, hell, even go outside the walls, when it's so dangerous, and you can always just dig deeper for more capacity? Only if it is absolutely necessary do people organise to go outside. 
[For instance, three winters ago, Tig's parents were drafted to repopulate a neighbouring town, due to overpopulated, and told to re-establish a town. They all died, and Tig was left an orphan.]

Different ideologies spread out across Albion as each region contends with its own consequences of the [East-West Exchange/Meteorite/Anomaly], alongside the climate and ecological concerns of the passing Nuclear Winter.



Militarism stands militant in The South and Midlands' remnant populated enclaves. 
The Military only gained from the collapse of the world, it seemed, as the chaos and bloodshed allowed their order to flourish. The only factions to gain were absolutist.
They maintained their iron hold on power as their foe was eliminated, creating a Regional Hegemon of power.


Maximism overthrew the industrial centre of [Leeds] after a revolution, and a counter-revolution. The military was ousted, and in the chaos, bandits seized power and gave their friends positions of authority. One villain was traded for another, but they word their efforts as if it is to the people's benefit. They talk of expanding the revolution southward, but never do. They speak of reaching the coast, of seizing [Lancs/Geordie] but [AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA]
This worried the other regions, but other concerns kept them from being able to attend this... growing concern.

After [ANOMALYIES] So many new areas of science branches opened up, and funded by the desperate remains of tycooners looking for a miracle cure, giving into preachers or just hoping for results in investmens.. (Lord Summerisle) is one of these.


The (where cornwall was (cornish) coast is home to an array of flora; the gulf climate allows for exotic plants to bloom in prior warm summers.
What is left has decayed and withered in number and vibrance, save for the areas touched by the fertility Lord Summerisle's crops yield.

Lord Summerisle's manor, looking out over the bay to (Ireland).






                                                                  (BRINK & BLEAK SUN)

In the Brink prequel, there's a space sky tether, to begin subsidised space travel to conquer nearby worlds with veritable deposits of minerals. This harmed the atmosphere greatly with the increase in Space Travel, and exacerbated the energy crisis in regions not suited for geothermal transportation.
Some nations used slingshot systems, and railcannon transports to launch a craft at escape velocity, and then it would slow itself using a self-rotating capsule. The technology was evidently more advanced than even our world, so the fall was even greater, the light lost was truly golden. Utopia and democratic stability under this island's reign, then a backfire, due to whatever.
The politics of that world need fully ruling out. Do this in a seperate document, and you need to LINK to it.

With a white flash, the bombs incinerated the cities, and wiped out the electronics of all but the most isolated areas. The National Grid died, and so began the subdivision of energy as an economy of regions (and the seperatism beginning)




Refugees from the bombs.
For three days I fought my way through the crowds exiting the city. The roads were packed with refugees, carting along whatever provisions they had afforded themselves. The roads hadn't descended into banditry at such a time, for the grief and pain essentially deprived many of the ability to do more than crawl away from everything they had ever known.
All that was of value to me at that time was getting to my home. 


Welcome to the start of the post-Anthropocene.

We got welded in today. The upper district finally closed off the final corridors and halls behind new reinforcements, and welded the doors shut.








                                                             (MAIN STORY IDEAS)



Chapter 1


Tig is not born with debt?

Indebted people live at their workplace if their houses are reposessed
Some live in slums

Tig's family knowledge of technology makes him an exception,
he knows technology, computers, so he can make better than most.
Thanks to his family.
But he's still a Worker.

Kay's rations are dished out in a state owned pub.
Public owned pubs are no more, they are taken over by the owners of the area, in almost all cases

No blood sample. His flat is decrepit, but he gets better living conditions than others.

His own home.

The lightbulb is broken and flickers so his computer, a luxury, lights up his home
(In time he will lose his computer due to [x])
His flat is full of tinkering bits he has bartered through odd jobs- jobs for ration cards he
does on the side, but then trades the ration cards at the (black) market. Unofficial, but tolerated
market

His wife didn't leave him, he was moved. He misses her. *Pinku.*
Mouldy walls, with but one poster.
He has a Window.





					The Impetus

Idea 1 - Cultists 

Idea 2 - Meteor




[Storyboard ideas inspired by The Expanse]
Flash-starts with katterin, trapped in a room, dying, choking on the poison of the coming apocalypse.
She sees, and weeps, but it does not appear to be sad when she cries out with a smile at the end.
[In reality, after this scene, a lot transpires, and a lot has happened BEFORE THIS, from which to write. Why is she smiling? Has she been looking for this already? Did her Dad send her here? Will she lead him here or did he send her?]

Cuts to Tig

for ages

and we only see hints of Katterin in one dream, and either online or in the world.
Cuts to Detective; a MERCENARY. Takes up the head of the richest heir in the isles, Katterin [Summerisle?]


OR


(Idea for writing the SETTING for where these characters interract:)
They are all static, with most running away from things, or striving for ideals with little actual action beyond petty missions, like STALKER jobs. 
One character, Katterin, running to the mystery, and her own arc. 
She was initiated into the religious cult but it's years before they all meet.
Katt is a character who is living in the Present, who joined of their own volition, eventually goes their own way, as they aren't running away together as part of a motley crew.
Tig is a character who hold high ideals but his actions feel like of little consequence to him, constantly erring between indecisiveness.
His death will split the group.



Characters reuniting.
"I've been out of your life for a decade; you NEVER left mine. I see your face plastered across half the continent, every time I move.
 I overhear stories when I'm out for a drink trying to forget you. I. Can't. Outrun. You. And now, you're here, on my door, asking for more from me? Get to fuck."
Old Friend Pub Option: The Player fucked this guy over, either lied to him about a quest objective a while ago, 
The Pub belongs to an old friend, or family?
Maybe you can do this all over, with different businesses, get houses or flats nearby, that charge rent, obviously, but ones EARNED are ones you don't have to pay for, (as given by Land Redistribution Protocol of the State, one of the enshrining protocols put into place by the government as the world went under.)












Before the game, a heist was pulled, much like many others, to reclaim and salvage artefacts from the dark zones. Many close friends of the characters are MIA, presumed dead, and one made it out, with the rare loot, but was left behind. Are they now hostile? Do they feel betrayed? What are they now burdened with? The curse of knowledge? An affliction and a burning hatred to boot with it, to arc around and control when this character dies? Like a plague, eating away at them, piece by piece. Marked by technology, radiation, something. They'll turn, and need to be put down, or can die having been pursuaded to be good at least one more time.
How they survived in the world in the Dark Zone with looted relics and a time limit on their life is where their hostility comes from; they took any means to survive out there, constantly searching for scant chances (to reunite with someone, or do something)








[The last flecks of surface light and]
Descent.
"Beginning descent in fourty seconds. Stand-by." The last draught of cool and refreshing air strikes his face, doing little to absolve the fret in his mind. He knows, however, that this is at least more comforting than what lies below.

Descending down a lift shaft with one voice to keep him company before the quiet depths beneath the facility.
"We'll stay with you for a... *static* -e can."

"I'm seeing some electromagnetic interference in the instruments, hang on."
His comrade hits his scanner firmly. The crude method seemed to work, as the display on the motion tracker fizzes and turns on, and begins displaying a red band and humming a rapid frequency as his hand passes in front of the device. He holsters the tracker, hands shaking as he fumbles to press it into the pocket.

"Approaching the insertion floor." 

"Keep an eye out for radiation pockets, sparks, flames, anything of the sort. You lot should be alone down there, so noth-"
The comms die out once more, with no sign of them fluttering back to life. 

The crackle of the old comms does nothing to lift the unease as the lift slows to a crawl, and the rusted gates open. He decides to turn the radio down, as the soft crackle begins to grind on his subconscious.

A cracked screen above the door flutters to life; "Disembark," it reads, the lamp behind the sign flickering between dim and slightly brighter, before the screen gives up entirely. A densely littered corridor lies just beyond the doorway, and with a few small steps out of the lift, the swathes of dark growing closer with every step, [protagonist] sighs a solitary whimper. His headlamp only lights but a few feet ahead of him.






When you travel to the Isles of (Ireland), you find it ravaged by conflict as the resource has all but vanished from everyday use, people burn wood and have cleared many once safe sites outside the walls in search of timber.
The player should be easily able to distinguish safe areas from overgrown, verdant wilderness.
Many don't come back from these cuttings.

There is mass protest against the acquisition of peat for sale abroad from the trade distribution wing of the (Market-Liberal Dystopia in FakeEdinburgh, the new Capitol seen as London did not survive.)
Peat is a poor person's fuelsource of this world, and the richest 'nation' still holds the might of an endentured (Ireland) for the sole excuse of mining resouirces. This creates, and created, mass tension in the post-nuclear world.

(The Rich take the good stuff, the Irish get scraps.)
It has been rendered more useful due to decades of adaptation to the 'readily available' fuelsource for all.






A man is being held hostage.
The person holding him is doing so to prove that they waste nothing but time holding them captive, but believing they can turn them to divulge information if they cause enough chaos before they give them the [plot device, choose]
And so, they cause chaos, surgically, randomly, seemingly unconnectedly unless [x] puts it together.
However, information on bodies reveals what this badguy is after in fragments.
What do they want?
And what is driving this man held hostage to keep his mouth shut about this secrets devastating power?

Football hooligans are the gangs; cities trace their mobs from footy roots.

A squad in the field, the commander wounded, and his men turning against him the worse his condition gets; protagonist on the fence; some of the team leave in the cover of night; distress.

A team is moving a valuable item from an anomalous city, hit by a bomb. The target is locked up tight, the passengers don't even know whats on it when interrogated, as revealed by dialogue, or audiologs when taken hostage.
The package is compromised.
The team sent to extract the package from the bandits who raided the convoy, are told to evacuate IMMEDIATELY after confirming the box was just opened in their skrim, then... it emerges.






[Welded out]

We were sent into that desecrated tomb, they welded the doors behind us, promising us freedom and riches and a bottle of old-world whisky if we returned as comrade heroes.
We didn't feel like heroes.
The only thing motivating us was the sentence, and the strict speech of 'generational duty' that our people must bare, as consequence for the consumption of the old world.
They say our blood is shed every generation, in war, civil upheaval, or now, in the new dark age. The sound of this welding is familiar to most of us, as a sound of the walls being repaired, the sound of steady progress in building back the settlements and reclaiming what we thought lost in pale Spring. T

he torch hisses comes to a stop, and the afterglow of the door's heat recedes from our side.
The last warmth of the fire from those on the other side bid us farewell, and we were left in the near pitch black with the torches shone in our face by the comrade commissars in charge of making us work in these pits.

They hated being down here as much as us, but they had to ensure we toiled till the end.
They chose the meanest fuckers possible for these kinds of jobs. Real walking propagandists, naive, green, wishful, whatever.
They come back scarred, if at all, but still, they send fresh units and promote the survivors to less hostile postings.
They bark orders as we shuffle down the line and collect our equipment, the lights flickering on ahead of us down this dimly lit tunnel, sunken wood propping up the concrete, now faultering, like the legacy of this once bountiful place.
We walked down the tunnel to Old Town, to the areas hit more severely, and not protected in these underground transit tunnels.)

We trudged on, work detail boots still sore from the new issue. 

One of the only perks of these jobs is you find out where the uh.. 'hard earned taxpayer money' goes to. Penthouse tax, water tax, green tax, state tax, offical-non-official 'patronages' to local city officials and comrade gangsters alike.. It all ends up somewhere. 

For us, it was in the stun baton pressed against the backs of the people at the furthest sides of our detatchment, trudging in steady successive lines of twenty, four rows aside, flanked by the crates of loot from landlords. The state always reclaimed on property, deemed in vital need of redistribution, but still, it laid collected by them, and ready for processing, by them. 
Collected nonetoodissimilar from us, the masses, to be spent like the landlords were, in provocatory hearings of guilt as to whom is to blame among us for the sins of the old world, the callous greed that our socialist forebears warned of before the revolution. 


The other side awaited us in its full stench.
Just like I remember, burnt rubber.
I haven't smelt air this thick in years.
Now on the other side of the walls, we were to collect supplies, and then, once returned, if at all, we were to wait down the railtracks while the provisional defences towards its direction were constructed.
Failing that, we were to ditch our loot and head back to this door, and the reassignment that would follow.

The gag of the air grew stronger as we got to the other end of the tunnel, the echoing sound of thunder growing more in sync as we trudged to its downward end. Into the light of a half-moon, smudged with clouds behind the haze of the old skyline, coming into view.


Eventually we were told to go topside.
Cleared to go off to our own lands, our work detail done, we were told, be free, live on the vast swaths of reclaimed land.
[lie, he murdered his CO and ran into the woods of a neighbouring region, lying criminal, easy to see through when you know this character, shot dead with a SuperMac 10mm]


Bugs.
We busted a nest of them, that was our task.
I've seen these fuckers in their true form now, not just from tall tales in whispered radiator side chats.



I saw some of the previous wave, the group two sections afront of us while we set off down out out the meat grinder. They weren't the same after a few hours. Once they'd been effectively cocooned by these monstrous hive, encapsulated..
I saw the workers and nurses do something with royal jelly routines while we examined the remains of one of my friends.

One who survived the routine, only to die later, told me that the organism in the mutated larvae feeds into queen consciousness, and he communed with her while trapped in that state. His skin decays with a rot like hexagons, pulsing with arduous rhythm in harmonic frequencies atuned to the low-high hum of four winged insectoid monstrosities.

then the larvae grow in place of the decaying memory..
The old stories of these old [celt] monstors stealing your soul when they snatch you is true in a sense now. The old stories come true with biohorrors of folklore legend coming in the fires of a green and dangerous new world.
Brave one must be in this new world


.
.
Made camp in a verdant regrowth of an Aspen forest reclaiming an old hamlet along the motorway lines, its doors boarded up and barked down with collapsed trees and the remnants of long since unlearned happenings. Remains of campfires long burnt along this path, cleared buslanes and footpaths, mass burials show this way had at least been tended to in some respects, even if only in haste, when things first went tits up on the surface.
Now, all we see instead of the near eternal stark gray of them days, is the green left in its wake. Pale green. Desaturated, as if the very earth is deprived of its thirst for life having suffered a long and sickening illness.

Aspen growth has been marketted during our absence from the maintenance of our sovereign land. Paths no longer tread become sealed off by changing natures, and the things that dwell within ruins and dark zones, well, that's not something I want to go near. Not after hearing those.. fucking sounds the other night.

Radios been getting sketchier with channels further out from more established territory. These channels free from state approval, pirate radio broadcasts and comm chatter, they're a way for us out here in these wilds to talk to one another, communicate, text-to-text or voice-to voice. Computer tech helps us, proprietary and clunky as typing commands onto a keypad for /whisper can be every time you wish to communicate on an open forum, on open frequencies.

This new style of PDA tech really is clunky. Everything's /all for some people who really dunno how to use it. 
(How the game has All Chat for NPCs traders local people and alerts for in game shit like Stalker does or Fallout is supposed to)


Got a taste of real-deal salmon again, fucking scranned it. Hunter bloke said it was a sign of a bountiful Early Spring, to catch one so young. Dried and flaky, just like I remember it in them ways, but bit strange seeing the uh.. new flavours.
The smoking of it got most of the weird taste out, and the third eye, conjoined to the leftside.. yeah I avoided that section. Something about it just seems to remind me of what's become.

No caviar though.
[russia something/character does something/hunterdoessomething/russiadoessomething]

Tig or someone loses an eye in exchange for knowledge, or power, or something. It's prophesised.

Don't get too big fer yer boots, "tig", but you can have my stuff when I die. Dead Man's Shoes for loot and bioaugmentations. In the game, one of these is named the Edged/Bladed Runner, but translated into japanese. 
or nickname









There will be a space segment as the weather is relayed to the ground later on when space connections have been re-established, and the miracle of national regrowth and national supremacy seems likely; of which the scientists will discuss through the radio, bla bla bla, it's a link point between stories. 

In the long-term, I need to have a fucking BIG ship. It will begin as a prototype, and will be HINTED at throughout the first game, and have a mission which will, in the third game, tie in and give you this massive ship, with a mission to do an orbital drop to contain the infestation.
Carpet bombing, 2min later, ODSTs arrive, as fired from the ship in low earth orbit, high atmosphere, in a pressurised environment, in an aircraft carrier with maglev engines, and the ability to accelerate to swift speeds, with hatched battened.
Think Bebop, but 3x the size.
A command centre for an elite crew, finally up and running.
How far you will have come from pistols with a few bullets, cheap bounties and odd jobs, and scavenging for tins of peaches when forced outside the walls.









                                                     (MISC MAIN STORY BITS)

Officer or a Grunt meeting like in the Last of Us, so while children are growing into the world we can explore the civilian aspects of state organisations. Officers are fleshed out as the stories of soldiers is meshed inbetween, doing the work, but also showing the 'home front' so to speak.
Soldiers on frontlines when the horror hits.
Officers when the strategy is unveiled later on
And then a faction gets wiped to make the point bleak.
[WHAT DID YOU MEAN BY THIS? Which Officer? Do I have to rewatch the show?]







Tig went on a walk, for a smoke, at 02.46am
February winds had calmed enough for him to be able to leave the huddling shelter of his doorstep for a smoke excursion out around the block.
He stared at the moonlit sky before setting off, fumbling with a cheap lighter he'd scrounged amidst an assortment of items in his parka, and other routine habits one acquires when they live amongst the night, as we do.
A cigarette is like a friend, it accompanies you through thick and thin, is there to listen to your thoughts when none else will. Tig wrestled back and forth with ideas often when walking alone, headphones in. Right now a song played that he made his ringtone for his PDA in his earlier years. He was tricken aback with a flash of being followed, of being surrounded as he crossed the street, the song being a hex that he should be alert and answering to some as-of-yet unknown entity.
In reality he was just freaking out as usual because of the kerfuffle across the street mere moments ago making him a fraction more alert. One has to be alert at night, after all. Inner city violence escalates with each new decree, each new step in the grand plan for the rehabilitation of.. He remembered his childhood philosophy classes. Professor Kirche...

He wandered the education and residential districts at night, it was so peaceful to see a place of learning in times of bleakness. Small remnants of plantlife remained, scattered, withheld, yet still vastly unmaintained and overgrown in branch, but not leaf. At least, not leaves as one could describe them. After all, the Neo Ivy spreads by the day, an encroaching rot across most unprotected old world flora.

Tig approached his home once more, his cigarette having needed to be re-lit once more with each scant thought betwixt his journey.

[Next smokebreak]
[Tig met a fellow at the traffic lights where the industrial trains of resources and recycleable waste were shipped back as per the UN's final charter on the 'maintenance on junk' that the losing power]

A pause by a fire with a bum leads to [mystery unfurling through exposition]

A kiss by a fireside later discusses this conversation.
Fire is the metaphor here?

Fingers numb, a layer of deep cold kept at bay by the fur and canvas of an ageing, modified Parka.
The logo of a band modded onto the back, and patches galore stretching down his left arm, and, eventually, a pauldron on his right.

You're in the decontamination area, being given questioning before being cleared to go off. You're being asked so many questions. This is an introduction.. amnesia after a long stint in the wilds.
Your new start.
Then you get transported away. To a better, but still bad place.
You're from the hellscape.
You need to go back.
Maximist hell.


I got talking to a bloke late night by a campfire on the comms, he was chatting shyte over a shared dram or two while we talked on open comms about what these lands used to be. Turns out this wee gadger used to be a geologist. He talked about how 'These lands used to be marshlands hundreds of years ago, flooded, wetland, lowlying. We even helped with canals to make our own routes of lowland water guidance, slowmoving, balanced, allowed to settle and fester and create carbon stores. We did the same thing, just with the city, after the bomb went pop.'




 He was telling me all sorts of stories.
He's seen people rounding up massively mutated farm animals with cars, using the cars like horseback or like sheepdogs to found bison sized cattle across to new pasture.
Motorbikes too.
New perennial grass breeds to feed on in the regions not hit by blight with scientific wondercrops, breeds to withstand, they say.
Lucky them.
Regions and classes are segregated by food. Rich can herd new cattle. Poor can't.
Scavenge.

Stomachs with legs pick up grasses and churn out fertiliser for fresh vegetables. Must be nice.Been so long since I've eaten proper vegetables, not tins, not preservatives, not frigging chips.


The riverbanks are higher than he remembers, apparently. Something about the glaciers renourishing themselves.

Some are empty, down in the droughtlands. farmlands and other such areas fucked about with, destroyed, it, trying to dredge new water where none was to be found when the bleak suns hit. Waters boiled about in the sun down in the lowlands, back in the days of UV.
But where keen farmers have worked, they've rejuvinated rivers by slowing the stream down and developing mires and boglands and carbon stores to get some biodiversity, some green, and from there, rebuilt a small ecosystem good enough for human living once more.


Outside in the light mists of twilight's dusk, under a pinkish-orange sky I chuck breadcrumbs out to the birds. I remember chicken soup tins being a mainstay of the food back then. Hans Soup. The pov dishes consisted of soup and bread, like serfish masses we consumed it, irrespective of where it came from. Those who didn't find food, died. The worst of the effects of the bombs were the months after, where people froze, starved, or shrivelled away in decay. The rest of my parents lot got rough with cancers and other afflictions, and burns got the last of them a few years back, save for those that could afford treatment in the regions that stabilised.

The Merc tracks Katterin throughout the entire book, meets her once, and the interaction goes a way.
He starts off looking for her ship, her home, she's not there, does some minor tasks with locals [stealing water] and [selling narcotics, yanno interweave the story]

Later, when she is dying, and alone, he finds her again, and they die together, and he is made to understand why she chose to become the catalyst of destruction.
Tig's appreciation of the detective changes, and he despises everything his friend became, yet he is rendered a martyr nonetheless as one who stopped her from living, despite them both sharing their deathbed in reality. *A lie for the overall story to accept as it would be narrated in common knowledge, yet a secret known by the few of the crew.*




An island that floats into the sky and a dude sacrifices himself with a nuke skitz cunt style.
Life flashes before his eyes as he dies lmao
epic
The view of the nuke from below, from the survivors who fled and made it to the ocean below and land near aircraft carriers, see a bright flash close, like a sun.

The first nuke used

















































			PERSEUS AND THE POWER PLANT
The power plant used by Tig and gang
to restore power to a settlement 

the power plant was running only on
very limited power, decaying matter,
nobody had attended it for years

they turn it on

boom

Perseus awakes

lore reveals Perseus took control of the
power plant in the first place years 
before the bombs
yada yada












[Exerpt from a Side Character's arc, at the start of book 2]


A BIG change in the plot, with the side characters taking centre-stage, something that takes the side characters off guard and is related to the mystery. They're trapped, and a bunch of NPC types die fighting alongside them, they can live long enough cuz plot armour tho lol.
Anyway,
In AOT, it's the Beast Titan.
It could be the outbreak of the virus, or finding out it's linked to something. It could be Perseus, or some human faction. Think of something, but it has to link to the main plot as a puzzle, so it's not just Tig & Gang learning everything.

Anyway, they're caught in the middle of a shitstorm, they were on R&R in a quiet spot in AOT, it could be a routine op in Irwell, think of something.
Then it goes to pot, and the macguffin happens to give a hint to furthering the plot.

They talk about what they've seen, and in their disbelief they draw different conclusions. 
Ymir in AOT - One who is knowledgeable about it all, but kept it a secret. Perhaps it's a cultist member of the group or some shit? Perhaps insert Katterin with this lot, and she's not letting on what she knows once again? Can't keep playing that trump card over and over, it'd get old.


Fight scenes, talking, one gets injured and a compassionate character tends to the wounded, introduce new friendships in the midst of combat for emotional value.

Situation gets bleaker, the fight is heavier
and they're backed into a corner and running out of ammo,
or running away, dropped their weapons and running and getting picked off
Side characters are on the verge of death,
and one martyrises themselves, and dies for them to buy them time, perhaps running with grenades or jumping into the horde to distract them, if they're running they carry someone to safety with the enemy on their heels, the person shooting as they're dragged, and then the person being dragged says "i'll hold em off" and goes down gunning, with a grenade in hand.


[In AOT, Compassionate character is so moved they walk into danger to watch them die]

In book, compassionate character is stood there staring at the explosion, or their friend dying and scream.
YOU CAN'T SEE THEIR FACE CAUSE OF THE HELMETS, but the stance should say it all.
Awe, heartbreak, defeated in spirit.




Heroes swoop in

Tig or someone else who is learning jumps into action and gets their first confirmed kill with the cool movement gear or a mech suit or some shit

Their first step towards growth


Though, they're still new, so they fuck up.

Could also add that they're not following orders by charging forwards.
Rash, impulsive character needed.




Anyway, the end of these side characters' arc when the main characters arrive.

The Main characters meet up with side characters
They catch up on whats been happening here, essentially recapping everything that's happened in their arc and how they all feel on it; important to EMPHASISE THEIR PERSPECTIVES.
Later they mourn the death of their friend

[IF MAGIC]
[In AoT, Historia says that Ymir used powers to save her friends, with no regard for saving herself, which proves her loyalty. Her reasons for not telling them may have been out of fear for her safety were she known to be a psion.
"She may have known things useful to aiding [the goal], and for all this time, she stayed mute, and did not extend even the slightest bit of help. How many died trying to understand what she could have explained?"
"She feared for her life, what would become of her when we asked /Why/ she knew so much. Even if it was not us, she likely feared what humanity would do to her. We all know the stories of the [Cleansing of the Heretics.]
To me, she was, and is, my ally. She sacrificed herself. For. Me. [If that doesn't convince you, if that isn't enough to prove her innocence, then you're as warped as the [Church/Cultists].]"










[IDEA - Psions, Necrons, Voidwalkers, and Religion.]

Maybe a part of the mystery is some people are connected magically to the world.
Magic is coming back since the Apocalypse and the hyperspace calamity that destroyed the moon.
It has been gone for centuries, with people gifted with magic persecuted long ago by the [Christians] for their sorcery... And with good reason, because it's linked to the evil gods, and the good gods' power is nature and the balance of life, and magic is the power of the void, of time, entropy, and death.

Perhaps Katterin learning magic is a bad thing.
Perhaps voidwalking is knocking on ktulu's door
perhaps the person who sacrifices themselves in [Side character arc] do so by opening a portal to the void, which opens more questions than it answers for the plot because we wonder how they got their powers, and where they've gone after they used them to teleport everyone to safety.

[Or is this a plothole? Or is this even a mystery? Because it'd be explicitly stated that Magic is coming back to the world, you need to develop this idea]




There are two known schools of magic, but there are theorised to be more.
Psionics, and the Oblivion.
Psions tune into the Noosphere and use their magic from the plane of existence of living forces.
Thus, this magic is light, and in tune with nature. This power is frowned upon by the monotheistic religion of [Christianity], as it is seen as granted by false idols beyond the true god of 
[The Sun/Fire/Light [Fire's a bit overdone, right? Game of Thrones, The Witcher, it's overplayed]/Whatever].
[Perhaps draw inspiration from Rome, and when they almost went monotheistic proclaiming one true god of the sun.]


Voidwalkers tune into the Void, or, the Oblivion as it is called. This is synonymous with dark magicks, and is seen as heresy by all but the darkest religions.
Voidwalkers were purged from the world [several ages] ago and their powers became the things of myths, and of legend. 
Since the apocalypse, they have re-emerged. Why?
Why did they disappear?
Why have they come back?
Why is [MONOLITH] using void powers and committing atrocities in [TIGS HOME TOWN]

The darkest path of Voidwalking is that of Necromancy, where one manipulates the void to resurrect the dead. 
This power requires to take souls to resurrect souls.
To speak with the dead, you must kill a mute.
To raise the dead, you must kill a newborn.
To raise an army of the dead... you must perform a bloodrite beyond comprehension.





[FOUR HORSEMEN.]

PESTILENCE AND DECAY.
NATURE AND PLAGUE. (Nature switches sides after seeing the world is lost? Nature is piiiissed at humanity.)
TIME AND ENTROPY.
THE VOID AND ANTIMATTER.


















                                             (THE ENDTIMES)

3.5 Billion Years ago, life was born.
Less than a Billion Years into the existence of our world, Biological life began to emerge, from "LUCA - Last Universal Common Ancestor"

What is forgotten is the life before it; for if it is a miracle that life was born once on this world, 
then surely for it to exist twice is a blessing too.


A biochemistry utterly different from the carbon-based life of today; the first life was living chemistry in the pourous rock of an ancient lake at the oldest spot of significance in the world, long since eroded over by continents and time.
It comes back, haunts humanity, using the power of living chemistry to erode humanity with a touch-sensitive rot plague like the Flood that melts carbon based life upon contamination.
These people become toxic and their skin can malform and rot with metallic scabs that peel off and unnatural fluids of toxins festering in cysts in skin and bone.

The Old Gods have their living chemical plague, utilising a form of lead/tin? posioning.
"Plumbarius" "Stannum"
ALSO make note, as Huxley did, of the "ingenious" means of war of a generation gone.


Science officer clad in blue robelike official attire schemes amidst the crew of a ship- part of a political elite intermingling amidst the officer corps. Worming his way into where niggles are found in the operation; attacks by coastal raiders, old tech that needs fixing, he has a word to lend on everything. The Zealot Maybe?

The monster breaks loose; a relic of old god proportions, a beast of man and relict past.
The survivors recount their tale.

The beast stalks the countryside of the area as the team evacuated, with a heavy loss in the region as the blightlands seemed to strike back with this mythical monster unleashed into the world.


A group of our characters are stuck behind the lines of this revelation as the story of Act 1 of the MYTHICAL element of the books/shows/games is revealed, more comes with time. This is partway through the books already that this is revealed, though.




There's a monster, who inhabits people, they're not as they seem, they have a few off features
IN DOCTOR WHO, they SNIFF AND STARE
SNIFFING FOR HOSTS, like TIME LORDS and that

Here they,
They want memory, knowledge, they feed on it. It's Psionic. It feeds off memories, knowledge, transmitted to a hivemind entity of the Noosphere, through the conduit of the Demigod; the one at the bottom of the sea.
They're possessed by the gods to sniff out those with something for it to gain, which we know not, at first.

(Later)
Later on, a character can explain their choice of hosts by
"Why did he want me?"
"A low level telepathic field, you were born with it"
An extra synaptic catalyst or something
the magic awakening in the population

And these people feeed on it.

Horde of zombies becomes more agressive and can run if you alert the majority
lone stragglers only become enraged in combat and can call any nearby stragglers,
continuing the melee summons the horde, who have maximum intelligence, for a brainless necro horde.

Also, their guts can be used as a scent-based camoflague.


			[THE SCIENTIST - HIS EXPERIMENT IS UNLEASHED]
[Where? An Island? In Orbit? The CRACKED MOON? The bottom of the ocean?]
[The bottom of the ocean is the secret base, a facility only reachable once you repair your submarine and after the fleet battle.]


"We have reached the limit of our expertise now. We can only observe how it reacts, by letting /it/ learn."


[The Cultist's brain was wilfully tampered to remove empathy, so he could continue with his holy task. Reclaim the earth for the catalyst of destruction.
and
The more junior scientist rationalises feeding the lovecraftian horror (the noosphere demigod) souls and conscious minds to learn from it, so they can continue their work in giving humanity the ability to tap into the Noosphere, and to control people's thoughts so as to remove anger. remove greed. create a world without hate. Tig responds, Remove Freedom. The scientist explains that may not be a bad thing, given where Freedom has brought us. It is a hinderance, self-awareness is hindered by selfishness, rather than communitarian actions being taken. 
[Tig explains Jr. Scientist sounds like a Maximist.]
[Has Tig dealt with the Maximists yet?]



The runes told of this spot, this exhaust vent, down in the deep.
A leviathan stirs, ready to be awakened, by a prophesised few, who travel into the cave [its mouth, it IS THE 'VENT']
When it is awakened, it does not immediately attack, but retreats to the depths.
The scientist feels only relief when they see, and they are subsequently crushed by their chosen diety.


One of his minions is captured by [Tig Company], held by a neutral [hesitant yet militaristic] guy? who? establish characters], spouts exposition about the leviathan, is then much later taken by a gangster-syndicalist to create a new weapon, a goal which he cannot achieve. The brainwashed minion is of no use but for exposition now.


A child is taken. The father tracks alongside Tig's team, finding her.
[Observe the clip from 'The Expanse' in the folder]

The audio and music drops when he enters
thats brilliant
No words needed.
I'd make the child struggle more in the scene flashing before/after as to what the evil fuckers did with the child test subjects but NO WORDS.
Just audio filling in what you can see as horrible.
And suddenly I got chills.
We don't need to see.
Personally, I'd show the characters, then just have the aniamted camera pan to the door.
Then, it bursts, and back to the game.
Kill the quasi-fascist ultra-zeal science division and their demonic abominations.

(Or if the game is 










The refugees cross a bridge after the train explosion, passing dead and dying, people are surging past, [Ray Family] slow, weakened.
The bridge is barely holding together. They try and get a signal on their phone to contact loved ones. Signs of fighting on the riverbank behind them.
Ray gets a call from his family, the signal patchy.
Suddenly, the enemy appear from beneath the bridge. Panic sets in.
People start stampeding the other way, frantically, back the way they came.
They must be close.  THE BRIDGE IS BLOWN.

They run frantically, past soldiers firing behind them, and we hear them say the right flank is breached, and a sergeant hears from a runner that they are pulling back from the right flank of the city, near the seafront, 
"it's lost."


Foreshadowing for later, we see on newsreels, "something falling off of it"
We see a news reporter tied to the army get overwhelmed by [Plague/Void/Zombies]
They formulate an idea in a pub that people are cowering in, guided there by a soldier, to await transportation.
[The transportation never comes as the fight comes to them. They leave, under a hail of gunfire, and a soldier advises them to get into the underground.]


Cut to underground; they tried going over the bridge to the outside, now they're trying to go through the subways to the train station.
THEY POSTULATE While walking.
Ankles covered in water, they head for the train depot.
They hear the klaxon above feintly, getting feinter, showing they're further away from the fight.
The refugees are thinner down here, than they were on the bridge, showing less survivors from the area they were in.

"We got the worst of it here in [City]"
"I got up close to that thing. If we can't hold them back here, then we're dead.]"

"Hey, do you hear that?"
"Keep moving."
[Rats flee from underneath them.]
"They're running."

They hear screams behind them, the refugees panic and start running.
Refugees are killed by the [Plague/Void/Zombies]

They outrun the bastards because the tunnel collapses, a [plague/voidwalker] falls above them, and crushes the tunnel. They are covered in dust, and managed to survive.


After another hour and a half of walking, they reach the surface, it's the early morning now, [this will help show the audience that it has been a long time in the tunnel and the threat is behind them, time has elapsed] the sun blinds them as they emerge, and there's thousands now. Walking, slowly.
They are out of the city limits, have gone under the wall, to the outskirts and the new lands humanity has tried to build outside. The train terminal is just ahead.
They keep walking, but pick up the pace, when they see people running.

They get to the trains, they're using cargo trains to fit as many as possible into containers and onto flatbeds with barriers to keep them on board.

Behind them, the wall crumbles. The machine lets out a bellowing signature sound effect that will haunt your fucking dreams [like the Reapers or the Tripods.]
Everyone's heads snap around, and towering a mile high, one lone void walker.
People run onto the platform, people stumbling, falling, being pushed by those behind. The xlaxon deafens them.
As Ray approaches, he sees the train is being blocked by a nobleman, who is trying to save his vast sum of wealth by hording it into one of the carriages, saying he owns the train, so he gets to choose what goes on it. The police are there, blocking them from getting aboard. [Ray] yells at them over the sound of the Klaxon.
[Halo ODST Kinzler he-he-heh]
They get to the edge of the perimeter, being shoved from behind. 

Suddenly, [Tig's company] charge at the Walker. 
		[In another installment, we will see this from their perspective, and will never reunify with the man 			they send down to the train to help expedite the evacuation.]

[One of Tig's Companymen] descend from above, using advanced armour, they stand atop the train. 
They demand the noble throw his wealth aside, and say it's either death by their hand, or death by the Walker. The noble points to the other train, beside them, saying that one is for refugees. "That one has but one carriage, and is for MEDIVAC. This one was commandeered for the walking. Step aside, NOW. I won't ask again."
He chooses poorly, ordering his men to shoot at Tig and runs inside, demanding the train set off now, with what wealth he has inside. He shuts the door, but The Companymen jumps down, punches the door open with a metal fist, rips him out, and he is trampled by the crowd. The companymen uses a jump-pack to jump on the train, and orders the wealth to be tossed onto the middle tracks, between both trains. His thugs are disarmed by the police who were on hispayroll ,who switch sides in a heartbeat, and the people climb aboard. He helps some onto the roof, even, but it's getting too late. But twenty seconds after this event, the train whistle sounds, and the train begins to set off prematurely, though it is already overflowing.

All while this is happening, the Walker is getting closer. It towers above them.

The train sets off, and the voidwalker is hot on its heels, we hear the screams as people are overrun on the platform. Thousands, sprinting after the train, holding onto its side panels, falling off one by one, with but a few stragglers holding the ladder. [Tig Companymen] is helping those they can onto the top, as Ray, below, shelters his family.

The train is the next target for the Walker, while the [Void/Plague/Zombies] overwhelm and swarm the masses left at the train station. The other train doesn't even make it out, it is ripped upwards, flung hundreds of metres into the air and hits the back carriages of the train, setting them alight. The Walker then opens fire with [Void forces/A projectile of plague mass lobbed from above it].
The train is doomed at this point.


They take refuge with a stranger, [The Companymen] His detachment was wiped out, scatted, dead, he doesn't know.
He tends to the wounds of the side character's people, and shares a little bit of info with them on what the [Plaguewalkers] [Voidwalkers] [etc] are.
they talk,
They talk about [Robbie's] death. 
"Did you lose anybody?" "My squad?" He trembles, as he thinks of them. "We were the first wave of [The company] to reach the city. By the time I got on board the train, there were but five of us left. They charged ahead as you saw, though, I doubt they made it out."
"It should have been me there. I should have been alongside them, to the end. They were meant to help the evacuation too, but they charged ahead to buy you-no, *me,* time, to get away. It should have been me."
In the morning they agree to travel as one.
 [the Artilleryman] tries to find his friends in [Tig's company.] In [The Other story] this man never comes back, he is never heard from again. He is MIA. Presumed dead, and these side characters are the last people to have seen him. His squad did live on, one of them survived [write this later]



Humanity's counter-attack in full force, civillians on the sidelines. They have to hold them here, at the gates of the city,
Rear echelon units are shell-shocked, taken off the lines and given duties to guide the refugees. You see many sat there crying, shaking, and a mountain of corpses, many with [infection, being burned in mass graves] or [with void injuries, like Plasma injuries in Halo.]
[The Artilleryman] guides these refugees to a grouping, then splits off to join his comrades in the hopes of being guided to his unit, or joining the fight with other servicemen.
The soldiers fighting up the hill, the enemy out of sight.
"No effect on target!" "Get the Refugees to safety, keep firing"
"Request Orbital Bombardment, fire fucking everything from those platforms!"
[Cuts to [Ray]
He is frantic, trying to [do X] then get out of here. [Maybe the Army are conscripting all men? He is conscripted and his family are on the sidelines?]

Music swells as the orbital bombardment comes in
[Ray] demanding to stay with his family, he is all they have and they will be lost without him.
"I know we're losing, but I have to protect them too."
"I'm not leaving them alone."
[See Refugee workers guiding his family away as he argues with a soldier]
[As they slip out of view, he stands there, defeated.]
[His family are gone. He might never see them again.]

[Now, think, what would Robbie be doing as he stands there with the soldiers as they lose?]

"We have [VTOLs] coming in, ETA 3 minutes."
[Robbie/Ray] looks back a final time at the surge of refugees fleeing down the hill, he can't make his family out any more. He is handed a pistol, and told to ferry shells to the static guns, or carry the wounded down the slope.]
[Explosion behind him as he is told what to do.]

[The enemy surge over the hill, led by a towering Monolith.
The scores of infected overwhelm them.

The commander calls in a nuke.
Ray looks at the man with incredulity. A nuke, on their own position.
"We have none to spare, repeat, zero left."
