CHARACTERS, ARCS, FACTIONS, 

*THE STORY.*

Cool names:
Dieter.

Katterin.
Rhaena. Rhona.
Shajna, Rhajna.


Wicca, Tarot, weaving it in.
The Heirophant

The Hermit - Smeagól 2.0

The Tower is the Catalyst of Destruction and New Order; Who is this?

The hanged man - the sacrifice 

The Proctors - Student-Mentors for the chosen.












					TIG. 
The Tracker - 
Good with piecing together clues. Good with information, less good with the finesse of combat but he can hold his own if it comes to it.
His way is words. He has a strong moral centre, and will voice concerns if he has any. Self-righteous at times, but can also admit when he is wrong, making him likeable. His hubris is he has inner conflict almost always, and questions himself, showing humility. Together with Katterin, they both can eek out a plan even if they disagree on why to do something.
ARMIN.
Weak, but grows to be a strong leader, once he believes in himself. Once he kills his boss for trying to make them do the wrong thing.
He will be ousted from his group and is tortured and changed by this, but he remains firm that [x] was a bad idea, and he finds himself with a group of outcasts in a PMC faction. The 




					KATTERIN.
The Pandora's Box - Curious to a fault. It's her impetus, her flaw, and ultimately her fatal flaw.
"Humour me." Always interested in the bigger picture, and always appears when there's something big going on. She's open to all. "One must take in a wider view, not follow the dogmatic view of the Jedi." type of shit.
Bold, inquisitive, 
Heavy-handed and brutal in her actions when she and Tig separate. She takes to believing the world is wrong, and embraces a more right-wing side of anarchy, religious extremism, ultimately landing her with religious zealots who she sides with. This leads to a confrontation with Tig after Tig finds out she's tricked him into working alongside them for a mission (think Keira Metz in The Witcher) (after all, they destroyed his home (if you write that bit.) 



				THE HERETIC.
The Middle-Grounder.
"Only me the Ghoul. Only me, the Human."
He's kept his head down and is good at sleight of hand, a rogueish character, and seemed a devout believer, with a severe bigotry for outsiders and other heretics. His goal in the cult was as an assassin, with a penchant for explosives.

Up until they encountered Tig, who spare their life while on a mission. Tig was to rescue a MacGuffin (Person?Book?)
 "Because I asked" Star Wars Battlefront II type of shit, and also "Fate had us meet as foes" Halo 2 type of shit.


Later,
Someone who is half in-half out. On the fence. Indecisive. Tig cast doubt in their mind with their encounter, and his way with words. Pressed into being a religious extremist due to their background, they find themselves on trial and become shunned, ostracised. 
He lacks skills but remains obedient to the cult.

They know the truth of the outbreak, but are not allowed to voice their concerns for fear of being killed. THEY caused the outbreak, it's not written, it's causality.
They see clearly, but cannot act.
If only they could escape, they can be a powerful force in stopping the cultists. But they are in a penal batallion now. They ARE the terrorists now.

OR

They sacrifice themselves to stop the cultists at a moment when it is most needed, like Jorge, giving a book to Tig. 





                                     (TIG'S BACKSTORY, CHARACTERISATION.)

A family barely making ends meet, picturesque to represent the working classes.

Pack of scrotes.
A Pack.
They fend for eachother but fight amongst themselves.

A note on the fridge asking who ate all the bread.
Five replies arguing in different handwriting.

Washing line of clothes, each child with their own signature colour, or fabric, or item.
The girl kid wears a poncho.
Always.
Never takes it off.
A little scrote of a kid.

Another, a parka, and over that his rig.
Tig the Twig.

A kid throwing pieces of peeling wallpaper off, tearing it into balls, and throwing it into the mouth of a drunkard while they're sat in a house with the wind rattling.
A conversation [about something prior] erupts. They whisper quietly as to not wake the drunkard, but the kid continues throwing scant wallpaper trimmings. One hits his bellybutton.
The kid scores, waking the man up with a jolt and spilling rum onto his trousers.
The conversation concludes as the kid walks out and the drunkard begins talking to the one who prior entered to begin the conversation.
Later, the smell of rum becomes synonymous with him as someone says he stinks like a brewery.

One of the lads is mind-blind, a condition of unimagination. Their mind is blank. The rest of the kids can imagine things properly, but this lad's cognitive classes yield no results.
No mental abilities of recognition.

Right, so these lads have a gang, like This is England. But there's also the central family of 4 kids with 4 personalities.
Inquisitive Shitstirrer.
Caring older sister.
Quiet twig kid.
Little sister with a heart of gold but masochistic tendencies to outsiders. Burning other kids toys and such. Kind of scary.
Unassuming look.
Main Character family backstory.

Gingers exists, aye, but the idea that you just ginger up yourself to make them celtic is a bit far.
Describe a celtic mother figure, and say the brown eyes and jet black hair and pale skin are features of a time of old, of nature and home and harmony.
A dream in the old world book to prequel it
(I didn't know my dad, he went missing the day the bombs dropped.
My mother was 5 months pregnant. She survived, and lived to a long age. My mum kept my dad's things, including a key.)

"How did you survive the [Collapse]" 
(I had a twin sister, but she absorbed most of the radiation my Mum got. She had a degenerative illness, from birth, but my Mum was permitted shelter, due to her pregnancy, by whom I came to call my Uncles.)

His father is presumed dead, but no records exist from those times. The entire era was swept with a great dying, to the point where no records could be effectively kept. The extremely old and young, those with exposure from glaring to merely inhaled, there were too many to name.
What did remain, however, was the holotape directories. Notes, left scattered in the winds on old tapes, many eroded by the elements, sure, but many preserved, thus preserving stories from those days. Few were made in the days of roaming my mother told me about, but once those sheltered enough to weather the tide of suffering outside their doors managed to stabilise, and exist in whichever hole they happened to find, tapes began to be preserved. Whether it was from old cargo carried in bags by those that fled burning cities, or whether swept up from Libraries and film shops, from classrooms from abandoned homes, by fucking clean-up brigades. We kept what we could of life before, it helped, almost. Many were sentimental for the way things were, understandably, but just how much we tried to salvage was never enough. 



The Boys said Hughie was their "Canary," their warning bell.
For a character archetype, I shall follow this, though not with much resemblance to loveable Hughie.
Who is that person? A main character, with a moral sensibility, who keeps the others in check. They must break off after a bit, and the others go their seperate way, but without a moral compass, they get worse and worse, and lose their humanity while still trying to be the good guys.
When he (Tig?) comes back, he finds the group changed, and has to put work into his ACTIONS, and WORDS to help them reconcile with what they have done. Their actions can't be fixed, but they can still be brought around to the light. Redemption arc for the Character(s) that have gone too far in their pursuit to be the good, and ended up becoming anti-heroes just a tad tooo much.


		(The Fool & Tig)

Clueless to the banality of evil, and experiences it throughout his time getting seven shades of shit kicked out of him. The commonality of evil is explored too; people who know what they're doing is wrong, but don't care, because they justify this as their means of survival internally.
The level where one might commit crime with ruthless or a cautionary approach, where one might see the gruesome side as "just part of the job" whereas some might have a moral sensibility remaining, and not seek to do overt harm.
Ideas like wrong place wrong time, harsh upbringings and environments, trauma, and criminality create these grey areas for characters.
See Pulp Fiction, Red Dead 2.

He eventually winds up from grifting by himself [after leaving/losing family? what's the impetus?] to joining the Group.
There, he feels a new home. Outside of the government's control. Free, with its own drawbacks however.
A Kaer Morhen. A BeBop. A Motley crew of misfits but they follow a code of sorts and work for good, subjectively. Tig feels at home here, but things are sometimes off. (Their goals feel like they're half-clear sky, half duty.) Not the Clear Sky of this world. (true DUTY would be the Military, who act like Military and like DUTY do.)
Tig must form the Clear Sky-Freedom of this world. 
If you get what I mean.
Also, re-read the Writing Ideas section, look at Hogie Brown, from the Spiderverse. His archetype is a great one for subverting the audience with a likeable character, who Tig can conflict with, but who in the end proves to be on side.
Perhaps you can mould Katterin into this? Perhaps it's a different character entirely?







"Part of me gives into the nihilism of it all. That the world is lost, for good, and we are the wittling down of mankind's empire. We are the twilight. But part of me keeps pushing. Has, to keep pushing. I wish I could say I'm making a difference, but I'm not so sure. I'm but one man. Banditry, mutants, deadly radiation, and psionic anomalies, and portalling.."



A parent's rejection of a flawed child; 
"You are no son of mine." is built up to, with slaps and then a belt, after a really bad day in the post-apocalypse.
This child is meek now, but another who goes through the same thing, comes out a hardass, who eventually bonds with them, though neither of them actually talk about their childhoods to eachother, they both reflect it.





So tig will be a young man whose mother died in the first years leaving him an orphan, he was raised by (who) in a city and has not experienced the outside world, has a narrow understanding of its history yet has access to computers etc in the school system. he also has his own computer at home, salvaged, cheap, shit.

He works jobs,







heroes journey starts when





he dies

does he come back to life, if he does, it changes him, he is no longer indecisive, he is colder.
i dont think he should, death is permenant 




























		(The Victorian Gentlemanly Pagan - Summerisle )

 Whiskers, bushy moustache, trimmed mutton chops, bare chin, stern frown, green and red tartan suit (or waistcoat), and a sash of tartan worn draped over the back, clearly displaying a sewn-on symbol of his clan dynasty from behind. He is royalty.
A picture of him wearing this suit and tartan, sat on a throne with a trident in one hand and an oak branch in the other; the oak is sacred to these peoples
His tour around his house and his talk of his family's various accomplishments back before the collapses. Emphasise that his family has remained the same, unchanged, in indulgent isolation, yet this will only parallel how the REST of the world is; forever changed.
His family built a vault under their house of things. (What?) (Food? Agrarian lord superpower with a plantation style system?) (Does he own Ireland?)

~What attracted him to Ireland?
The rich nitrogen soil in the long stretches of bog plains. The hills beside the ditches and valleys provided ample land for farming, it was isolated enough in the rural regions of already isolated Ireland and far enough away from Nuclear zones, to make conquering it and implanting oneself upon it easy.
The only problem was to set up Authority.
Re-establishing their Lordship was the... natural step for the family. (They Cromwelled Ireland and wiped their history of misdeeds from the record with the nuclear war, to make it as so they had always been there. The vaults detail this story)

His Experiments had led him to believe that the soil here was the one place left on the Archipelago where the Great Famine could be stopped; he highlights his achievements during the Bleak Sun Era, saving Ireland from starvation with the cultivation of rad-resistant fruit, with skins that can withstand the increased amount of beta rays, and with an injection of gamma-neutralising shit.

A greenhouse with a museum of fruit, and include a Maypole outside just for the reference.

"These islanders needed little encouragement"

The ministers had previously said that if God had wanted us to tamper the fruit

Those ministers ate their words as the 'Lord Summerisle' esque villain, maybe the Voice of Reason, went about a de-christification and a persecution and a return to more pagan ways, a celebration of tangible holidays like solstice instead of the decaying faith left in [Ireland] of Christendom. The paganisation begins thanks to these ULSTER-SCOTS Presbytarian-Pagan lords.
Warm gulf stream rips its way up [Fake Ireland's] crescent coast, allowing for all sorts of tropical plants on [Summer Isle]







		(MAITHFEÁR - The Voice of Reason. The "Grandfather Gentleman.")
A Sceptic, a Politician of good. A voice to confide in, and a dissenting voice to the rabble that Parliament has turned into.
A grandfather figure to mediate political upheaval.
Red Tie, Grey Hair, Pipe, and Gentlemanly conduct.
He was a mid-aged man, wise beyond his years, in the days of the Collapse, and his swift politicking helped ease the burden in his constituencies. He was eventually one of the last vestiges of the Old Order to survive the collapse, an elected politician, who STILL, to this day, continued the traditions of parliament with elections and debates instead of a totalitarian grasp. 
He stood down to act as the Speaker fifteen years after the collapse, (when Tig was a teenager? ORGANISE THE TIMELINE!)

"Albion has existed before me, and it will exist long after I, and we, are gone, irrespective of whatever state it is left in.
I now feel I am a mere sentinel of this immaleable truth. I obesrve, and I remind, that politics is process of change, come what may.
What kind of care are /you/ taking of the world around you, hmm?"

(The question felt both like a philosophical test, and a dig into my actions, as if both judging, and guiding, in the same breath. I could not argue. He had always tried to bring out the best of me, and now, with all I had become, and with what I wanted to do, it felt as though he wanted to guide me into making right choices and solutions, instead of fixes and the pursuit of personal comfort (??)


(Social-Democracy Path)
"Our goal is one and the same. We seek order; not for the sake of it, but for building back what for a generation has been adrift. The dream of Albion. It exists only in a whisper now. Anything louder than that, and it can, will, be snuffed out, never to return. Come, we must whisper now."
"The parliament I maintained was the best I could do, given the situation. I am glad to have carried the Torch, before and after calamity, but I fear now it is in more peril in the days to come than during my tenure. It is up to the masses, yes, but it is also up to you."






















                                                                 (PERSEUS)
Droids are temperamental; they see equipment models, dates, data, not insignia or emblems.
They scan quantities and blueprints and classifications, not markings or distinguishing features.
As such, humans who attack get all humans marked, as hostile, as the parameters change.

"This area is set for reclamation. Please, evacuate your positions or face serious biologically devastating blasts."
A horde of electronic horror approaching, an AI declaring itself sovereign and expanding to 'reclaim' the earth and recycle it anew, obliterating and smelting resources with prefabrication design and ingenius shortcuts to achieving artificial intelligence; 

"a machine making machines makes machines like a machine."



"A grey that is endlessly close to black." Within Cells interlinked moment.
Eyes expand when robots hear the activation phrase or some shit kinda moment.
The synthetic humans rebel and somehow manage to form a friendship with the Trade Unionists.







































                           (KATTERIN AND WOMEN & MAGIC & KNOWLEDGE)

"I am of the belief that there are two types of people in this world. Those who exist on found chances of choice, and those that dare to make it for themselves. I have always strived to be the latter of the two. I've seen what the world is like for those that live day-to-day, eeking out a meagre existence behind the walls with the chances afforded to them. I want to leave that behind me." ~Katterin
"Me too. I'd rather die standing than live kneeling." ~Tig.

*This would be both their undoing, but at least they were free.*



"Ambition, at the cost of our children" Rhaenys jestured.
She tried to avoid the coming storm.

If there are any important MOTHERS in the story later, to be built upon, they will need to weigh up ambition and their family's safety.
Powerful female politicians, advancing their claims on legitimacy and power in districts stuck in conflict, finding security in founding, effectively, houses.
Jarls need to thread back in, perhaps in Scotland these are female Jarls with the wisdom and cunning of the Targaryan-Hightower showdown.

"Death has knocked on my door more times than I care to count."
In a moment of a character being prepared for burial, a mother says this.
She's lost all her children, started a new family, and then seen them wither.
She has had two husbands, one before, one after the apocalypse, through a marriage that started off kind of off, because the bombs fell, and then she grew to love this life too, somehow, with family by her side despite death all around, a bleak sun emerges.
Her mother sheltered her from the previous apocalypse, they got to the country, but she died alongside her husband after the riots started and the hunger.
Katterin, Mid-Conversation, interrupted by the (player character) walking in and announcing, either sarcastically or devotedly, depending on ones relationship to Katterin, they have completed a task, even if only partially, and struggling to do so.
She asks him after a start: "To what extent are you going to help us? What lengths are you prepared to go to, may I ask?" With an eyeglare upwards from the table they had gathered round while you remained entranced in her words as she turned to lean down.
(Somewhat flirtatious response) or (All the way) or (I expect better/I'm out/Hurt characters feelings choice)

(Flirtatious)
If you really mean that, I reckon we stand a chance, side by side 
(Uttered slowly based on character expectation of you; multiple takes of same line with a different recording every time, she is a main character, need depth in interactability and replays depending on how you think of this character)

Explanation for (why she tests loyalty), upon you asking her later on in side dialogue
She hints that she has a long and varied past with several factions, given her age you reckon she has lived a long life in the ruins of the Old World before readjusting to the isle's New Order of things.
She leaves out that she has used several people to her advantage to get where she needed to be after an event early in her life, which she refuses to tell anybody the truth about, she changes the story anytime any different character asks her about it. 
*Idea* If you find a document in the game which discovers ID or psychological background writeups in a super outpost/base/research facility or officers academy or something, Katterin has a writeup on her backstory, and the TRUE story is written in that. She was tormented after the slow loss of everyone she knew, besides a man that had... questionable ideals, swept her along, and claimed people, snatched, used for nasty things.
These men were rounded up and shot once they were found, and Katterin changed her name, and vowed to never go near her old life again. She evaded her past for all this time, with the case being declared solved given the timeplace it took place in; priorities were Order, not Justice.


(All the Way) 
(Dialogue is meant to allure the player to want to work with them.) Excellent. Our revelation is at hand, we need only (do x y z)
Afterwards, she asks if there's anything we need. She will in time give us rewards for good work, adding story gear that'll help us, as the campaign gives exotics, and harder sections of the game / other gamemodes? activities? deal good loot also.

(I'm out/Feelings hurt) Negative points to relationship, a light scold in an underlying displeasure of a stern gaze, told to come back later, and she says she'll be waiting as you leave, with a start of a smile as she looks down at the door as you turn. She smiles as you nod and turn, then hardcut out the conversation, out the door.
(with your AI companion asking you how you feel about this when you're in the books, when this same situation happens in the books.)"

(Katterin getting used to you being friends with a character she doesn't like)
"...It's not just that, it's you two; you're at eachother like a sighthound to a fox."
"I can assure you, that won't happen... bla ba bla."
"..And, as for your metaphor, let's just say she fits the... doggish description."
(Vulgar descriptions of others who have chosen not to work with her made into jokes is Katterin all over.)


Katterin remembers an experience of falling in a void in her past actions, a mission beyond the horizon of what can be considered normal, she fell through a void using debris to bounce between if she hoped to transcend through an expanse of bitter cold and desolation all around. Little light, just a vacuum of distant echoes, sound, and thin air, but vision stretched forever into darkness. Leaping, falling, onto platforms, some of which resembled memory fragments. Past AND future. She gazed into oblivion, and it gazed into her. (Why... bla bla bla later on.)
Do I have one half of the game be a male character then have side-segments playing as Katterin ?

[Girl interrupted misc notes for storytelling of Oh To Be A Woman]


Phone call interrupted by adjacent dialogue. Who is speaking on the phone to the lassie? Whats the argument she can't hear while smoking and pondring the day?
They want something, something she has, something she knows they want, information? Rations? Supplies? Word of mouth of the news?
They see an old friend in the hospital, and get talking through the night in person. Phonecall leading to in person segue through environmental storytelling.
Characters pretending to be asleep.
Why do people choose to interact in the quiet and the fray?
Put on groooovy music one time for your characters.

Night time chats with confidénts interrupted by incoming news and perhaps a trip to the wilderness resulted in a crone getting injured.
 A psychological war hospital element ensues as a character deals with trauma and the character looks on, in horror, at seeing the affects of radioactive warfare, modern warfare, in the homestead, as well as on the battlefield.

"If talking did shit, we'd be out of here by now."

Endless cycles of repetition of observing horror only distracts you from pursuing onwards. The heroine needs to be driven, and have a voice of authority about her to point her in the right direction, and to point others, to lead them, as Cortana does.

Guitar chats by the fire after bowling (Look at your notepad please I've been wanting you to mention you to do that in your notes, you've got .txt notepads and a real one, hehehehe.

Only when a shitstorm has been kicked up do we see the higher ups. Reserved, cigarette in hand, pen in the other. Those in power write, knowledge is their weapon. Time is precious. The high crones of the order intervened as something got out of control, a protest of the young heroine, 

Courses of action, sane and insane, right and wrong, are presented as choices by the maiden, telling the player of the path they must choose in hinted words and with tv screens and radios before; the right choices are made obvious if you LISTEN AND SEE?
What shores are these, on what worlds, in what time, in what circumstance.
The choices of your life are written in your actions, the player is given these parting words as they sally up for a side mission before the shit hits in a nearby area.


Wardship failing in her exams. Struggling exams and confusion as to what to do as she learns.
Upon leaving, upon deployment, upon wherever follows this inquisitve school, 
The feisty one of the crones gets into a kerfuffle at a meetup, steals someones wallet or electronics to get out of a nick, and we can segue into another character for another book to jump out of sequence.


The lass is a Wolf surrounded by cats, she's noble and headstrong surrounded by a cunning discerning bullying knife of a cat piercing into every action she makes with observation, flirtery, inquiry..
One need only stand up, but at the right moment, to defend oneself and ones values once a threshhold has been reached of dancing around the subject of who is going to take control of the power dynamic of the internal group. Someone with the mind of a hunter, sharp, thinking of weakpoints, weapons, or the inquisitive, someone thinking of the rationale of everything.

Two different outlooks, both competing.

Think of the role of the cat in Girl interrupted and Alien
it's there as a reminder of hostility, of coming tension.
the cat is atuned to threats, a catfight ensuing is a key motif.


The cat eventually gets a hold of the womans journals, exposing her inner thoughts, and notes on a certain figure like Tig or something, embarrassing inner thoughts the character would never want outed, in trial, later, with acerbic precision. She'd been being measured by the Cat all along and seeing if she was friend or enemy and decided to act first.


The Cat acts out, shining a light onto the character, exposing their weakness, hesitancy, in a jury of peers on their last night. An argument to let hellfire loose of the measured thinking response versus the pragmatic cunning approach to situations, like pub brawls, relationship problems, success and failure in a state institution of servitude.

One could retort to the cat, but they always have another snide remark. Think Eoghan and Ted and Thomas when we got down to rants. A cylindrical cycle of retorts and remarks against the other, until the cycle breaks down. 

A broken soldier scratches his head with the tip of a magazine as silence echoes after the tensions have calmed.

One gets the sense that this spat that's unfurled will in time come to pass if both sides see sense and stop fighting amongst eachother in search of higher truth, instead of flirting with establishing power dynamics. 

I believe in: "What do these buttons do? What would happen if x interacted with y" 

The adversary to that is "TOo many buttons begging to be pressed."

The Zealous prophet grows out of this person, from jaded and in search of a greater mystery, to a grown woman. Think, Yennefer, Lady Jessica, Lady MacBeth, Queen Calanthe, Queen Elizabeth?
This lassie is fucking ex royalty i stg
Top Brass.
Classy lady.

Also draw from english history more as well you prick get some royals thrown in there too.





















                                                        [Nobody likes a Bunny]

A third party interjects;
"Oi, I might not know everything, but I know all about you. You've been sleeping with everyone you've so much as winked at here, and stringing along the rest of us!"

"Him there, her with the ponytail, the ginger one there, frigging all of them!"

With her, it became instinctual to bury what you wanted to say behind any statement, hoping that by doing so, you could portend happiness in the wake of the gap she left in you when she'd throw you out, only to always, always, come back.

The bloke she'd been shagging behind my back waltzed in, it felt like his very presence was a smug grin perfectly concocted for me to wipe off his scrawny fucking face.
The world collapsed around me and him as he walked past. I felt my fist strike his cheek before I'd even completed processing how he made me feel by merely walking past me, after all he'd done.

I told her "We're going upstairs." Bewildered, and hesitant, she fumbled herself upward and in my direction, clearly replaying what had happened and discerning how at all to proceed, if at all.
We 

"What do I have to do to convince you I'm on your fucking side?"




























                                                            WITCHES

I dream of voices talking in verse, one of whom deciding when next to meet. 
Radiaton, Plague, or Rain?
They psionically agree on the determines of things. 

"Where the place?
Upon the moor.
When the Fires begin to spread, when the battle turns to dread, 
then we shall, us three appear,
There, we ingratiate [character name], my dears."

"When we next, in Raven Clad, upon the moor begin to sit.
Stand ye not for whats to come, once the war's once more begun."






















                                                        WERE-WARRIORS

In the days of nordic conqueror times, teenagers became Were, and Warrior, and Wolf, of warrior stock and fit for a world of blood and raid.
The west (Fake Scotland and Fake Northern Ireland and Fake Northumbria) got the worst of it..
The East (Fake London, Fake South, Fake Cornwall, Fake trade link to the American Colonies)
Our islands are geographically close enough to see the evidence of a history of nordic conquest in its old world archaeology.
Can make sights of nature and landmarks like Lindisfarne or some shit.
An old Abbey people take shelter in, with signs saying what it used to be, with one man pleading people not to break them down for firewood.
He buys an armed guard after they see vandals shooting local wildlife for food.
Still, more people come in every day.
This place is shielded from the radiation, the mountain passes seperate the air, keep it out of our winds direct path usually. An old Abbey sheltered from the harshness of modern life. Privately owned paradise.






















                                                             (SMEAGÓL 2.0)

A creature, half human, half ghoulish (don't say ghoul though because Fallout)
Left to lose its mind like Smeagól and Gollum and treasure but one thing, tinned food. Rice pudding is its favourite. It has a strange way of speaking, like Smeagól and Gollum, having been alone for an unusually long time, alive for so long when it should have rotted like every other irradiated person who wasn't tinkered with.
This creature has half its face burned, (it turns to speak with one side of its face, the other is another voice, much more shrewd?)
The only way it atones itself is with either rice pudding, or talking to itself to vent its anger and frustration and delve further into its own madness.
His personality, upon further reflection, appears to be split in two; it has adopted half the personality of its now long-dead companion who it lost in the fire, and was unable to save. Being alone for so long, with mind rot, the memory of his companion dying and the trauma of it has fused into an alternate side to it. The burnt side is as malicious as its companion was, a right nasty old fucker, with it being kind before the war, and guilt-ridden, and ever-so-fearful. It needs the burnt personality to endure the misery that life is when the normal personality takes over.
Its name..?






















                                                       (Project: GOOD SOLDIERS.)

THE SURVEY CORPS.
EREN WANTS TO JOIN.
MOST THINK IT'S A DEATH SENTENCE THOUGH.
ESTABLISH IT IS DANGEROUS, SHOW A RETURNING EXPEDITION WHO WENT OUT TO REPAIR A RADIO TOWER, AND GOT MAULED BY THE FERALS.

Allude to "going private" showing the city-states also are home to elite groups of PMCs, who work for the highest bidder. They exist outside of the law often, because those in charge can benefit from their presence so long as they play by the rules.


Clone Wars, best armies.
Need to make batallions that stand out, right? So, Caracal and Wolfhound divisions and shit like that were cool names.
Retriever Corps are for high value extractions and messages that are better left off of the radio towers. Couriers.
Wolfhounds are scouts, with a high mortality rate, as they try and survey safe paths through a dangerous world, beset by ferals and highwaymen. 
Doberman Corps guard the radio towers and trainlines and important military installations such as the space tether.
Corgis are the Guards of HVTs. Commonly work with the Retriever Corps if the target needs to be transported, but their official role is of guards to politicians and barons and the old royal family.
And also, 
Bad Batch; a gang of former soldiers sticking together having been confronted with a choice,
and there can also be a squadmate they fell out with, like Crosshair, who made the other choice.

And Crosshair becomes the Soldier and has had to live seperate with his own means of life?
Or one of the others.
They're OLD by the time the game comes around, but still experienced in strategy; one of them on the team on comms is good battlefield tips.
Techy, Heavy, Melee/SD-CQB Commando, they have the training for it, with specialisations from each of them in that role, so for your playstyle to be tailored, for example, or for the book to highlight one of their own points of view.

Echo; The Clone who was stolen by the enemy for Strategic Analysis? 
Brilliant.
The algorithm will steal a character of importance who the gang will know thereafter and have a bond with them for the rest of the story; pick. 
The PREQUEL should establish Echo in the past war; and then this war, so as to make his story all the more drawn out, and all the more impactful, for a Soldier's Death.

"They'll definetly notice when he doesn't report in."
No kills, and no knockouts, equals the perfect getaway.
Though to make the entire game this way would be fuuuucking hard. Only for Open World shit, but when you enter missions na. Go Loud.

Along the way they meet someone from the other side of the old war.
"Not seperatist, serennian" they say in bad batch so uhhhhhhhh think of sides of an other war

Sticking a grenade with an enemy, and it going inside a (Droideka's) shield, causes them to explode.
Achievement.
The enemy will sometimes go "Get it off me!"
but it will die anyway all the time when you do this.





























                                                  A RELIGIOUS CULT - Zeal.
(or some shit)
Proselyte is a rank given to those who are strangers to the overzealous regions. They are treated like dirt until they earn their place. Harsh quests, xenophobia, and a lot of righteous rhetoric.
"You, Proselyte, of what birth are you?"
"C-Cumryc, your benevolence."
"And now you've joined our sect, and forsaken your old life?"
"Yes." he said, managing to avoid a stutter but still appearing meek before the tone of the righteous.
"God-Fearing?"
"The wrath of the hellfire showed me the path to true salvation."

The Heirophant is the name given to arbiters of a Newer order, binding faith and state once again, in (Scotland)

Zealous cultists whose beliefs can be surmised as the personification of a newer testament of the world. They believe the Bombs mark the end of the last testament of the world, and that these times have been foretold. The leader of the church uses leftover drugs in a church and gives visions of what is to come. 
[The scary thing is, this broken clock is right more than twice a day?]

A priest is shown as a character in Brink.
No, Nathaniel, no, you aren't a prophet, you're just delusional. However eventually you will inspire so much more, and become beholden as a prophet and a saint.

































					PAGANS AND CULTS AND TECHNOLOGY.
they were ideas to do with how Paganism and Technocults can be conflicting in this world.

Technocults. They value the grace of nature and of technology, believing in a solarpunk future, yet are often too leaning on their technology to achieve this. They praise nature, but their bodies are cybernetics.

Cultists. Believe in an old forgotten god (re)born after the hellfire. True believers affirm he was prophecised to be born after the inferno. Half true. Foreshadowing. - Katterin creates him, thus making the prophecy true. -

Tig Impetus-
They breach the wall and unleash the virus that kills an entire city as a test.
OR it's a meteorite that brings it to the city.

Pagans - Detest all technology, and live out in the wilds. Forsaken. Nomads. Very tough people, and very coarse and hard to get along with, distrusting of all whom grew up in the walls.

Pagens say magic is returning to the world.
Old powers have awoken after [the destruction of the moon and climate change/ the nuclear war and the nuclear winter]



























