SETTINGS, ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN.

*THE WORLD*




This is an Alternate Reality version of our world, with differing geography and elements meant to be metaphorical, paralleling a [British] Empire that never fell off and managed to federalise and create a true federal-royal state for 1/4 of the world's population; Albrythica, as it is called, subsequently subsumed [Europe] with joint oversight from an ever-increasingly isolationist, yet still Colonial [America]. The twose 'special relationship' defined the 20th and 21st centuries, and [Europe] saw much integration, forming a union amongst the aligned nations, yet still aligned with the Pax Albrythica.

And yet, a spectre arose on the continent?

The rapid development of modern history under the Third and Fourth Era provides historical context.
[Napoleon; France Loses, big time, and Britain dictates the peace, with belligerence from Europe, but none can rival the British abroad except the Dutch, whom Britain does a deal with, and they allow a Dutch Monarchy, Dutch Hanover, Dutch Belgium. There is less of a 'Concert of Europe' and more of an east-west schism, and the Balkans wars continue to happen. Germany is riven with civil war but two centralised states emerge, aligning themselves with Austria and Britain. Prusso-British-Dutch pact secured, the high seas are dominated by Britain, and Prussia turns into a commercial powerhouse, yet its military is overpowered by the Austrians and Bavarians whom unify Germany in one massive state.]

[Britain also builds alliances with Japan, whom they carve Manchuria up with, and delegates India and Japan to be made into *equal* kingdoms in the realm, with British Officers and a seperate British King, but married to the most prominent Indian and Japanese royal families, to quell outcry from the public and to usher in peace in the realm, as was done in America. The Kingdom now has even MORE crowns under it; from America, India, Ireland, Japan, and a growing decolonisation period emerges, yet nations remain in the bloc for security as British hegemony rules]

America grows more resentful over not being the jewel in the crown anymore, and having to share its' dual crown with yet more kingdoms added to the empire. Any attempts at making a commonwealth would now result in insurrection.





(THE PRETEXT TO NUCLEAR WAR)

Colonia; Nova Albrythica; the New Albion, the New World. For centuries it showed such promise, and with our dominion over the continent ensured by presidential and royal marriage intertwining the presidency into hereditary status; and with a president of the people, and with a prime minister for the people, New Albion prospered, dominionised, and then, in time, free, of the British crown.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yfolh7S7u0U
(American) 21st Century History; Civil War, factionalism in each region. Disunity. Then isolationism after its civil war.
Across the brineloch, bridged by igneous causeways and bights, stacks, heads; and fuckall islets.. civil war raged. We remained united, until the bombs fell.
"Dissent within the previously legitimate republican government is crumbling now; the civil war was merely gasoline for even more chaos, yet waiting, as even more organised governments have trouble maintaining unity under division. The tide turns every day, and no-one knows when the madness will end, if ever.
Some of the more powerful states such as Pacifica and Cascád (Cascadia) have declared independence from the republic outright.  This brings a possibility that Nova Albrythica will never reunite, but will fracture permanently.
Tens, if not hundreds of millions of (Americans) have died, lost their homes, or have fled, causing the largest refugee crisis in history. The sheer number of refugees threatens to destabilise not only Nova Albrythica, but step across the causeway, and into Albrythica itself."

("A thousand ideologies all calling for you to die for them.. Not too different to now, I suppose" I reflected.)
The Second republic of Deseret;
 The Federal Union of (America (Constitutional);
 Cascád(ia);
 Pacifica;
 Holy (American) See/Sanctum;
 N.A. Restoration Army (American-British special forces);
 United (American) Technosyndicate;
 (Navajo Nation);
 American Republic (Trumpist); w/ Free (American) State (Suburbia of New England revolt)
New Albrythica (New England)


Laurentia / Colonia / Albionoria (Canada)
Vesperia 'The land of the evening star' (Oceania (If it is to the far West)
(Or should Albionoria be Scotland, and Albioestra be Ireland, if Ireland is indeed to the east, and Europe is to the West.)



British public demanded an end to the war
Shadow of the Valley of Death.

"A spectre haunts the isles, and the continent alike.
The spectre of the gentry."




"All the powers of the old continent have entered into a holy alliance to reaffirm this spectre. Holimen and Czars, Kyngs and Barons, affronted by factions such as the 'Weeping Reverence' (New Testament God's Catholic church standin), and the Penatent Wing (Old Testament) stand in common opposition to the likes of Acadien  radicals and the Staatvolk of the old Mittellander (pronounced Mittle Ander in English, Mittelaender in fake German) folk. When a native of Mittellander speaks, they accent the name of the country, showing the spelling difference, and pronunciation.
Our own comrades, the seperatist regional proletariat, arguing for independence from the realm, seek to cause dissolution on our own soils."
Row, Once more, Brothers
Row, Once more, Brothers
Row us back across, to our home.
Through wind, sleet, snow, and pestilence
Through hail of shrapnel and test of patience
Row once more, brothers
(Find the communist manifesto and alter it for seperatism and leftism instead of communism, and make maximism a continental extreme, remembir)



[Faction Lines - World War and Post-War Alt History]


 Albrythica and the Dutch, then later Acquitaine, Prussia, and Belgique form an economic community which subsequently integrated Western Europe through Free Trade. Prussia loses a revolutionary war and becomes socialist.
"Abroad, revolution stirred once more, from separatists and nationalists and socialists hellbent on upending the treatises of Monarquay." (Capitol city name?) "The Asiatic League may have aligned itself as the enemy of our enemy, but did not turn to be a friend of the Liberal Order once the National-Revanchists were forced into surrender."

[FFWD 120 YEARS]
[Cold War throughout Europe, Germany and the Eastern Bloc caught inbetween, divided, or rebellious, or fractuous.]
[Cold War fractures United States and Russia grows. Federation begins to lose hold of India.]
[Peace has existed, borders and alliances have changed.]
The United States has confederalised along its divisive politics, with certain regions having waged 'freedom' wars and seceded their territories, whilst others still remained loyal.

The Federation of Equals has fractured, with a newly independent Indian Republic taking with it the hopes of peace in Asia.
India is forced to stand alone against the Asiatic League; spurred on by a war along its [Pakistani] and [Omani-Yemeni] borders over a new ethnostate. Then [Burma the Malayan Peninsula, and the Thai Isthmus] all declare their independence.

The borders of Europe stand near fractured after the complete market collapse that then ensues both internally and geopolitically in relation to [Russia] and [Africa].

['Sarissa'; Coalition Wars in the Middle East, divide Continental and Atlanticist Federalrelations further. The Federation shifts in the European Balance of Power]
systemic disagreement on the growing isolationism of the British from their federal responsibilites, and the growing wilful neglect by the [South] to powershare in the Archipelago's Regional Assembly, create internal strife.
[Space Brexit]
A long and uneasy peace ended after the resolution of a conflict which the revolutionaries deemed too much, nuclear war looms over the planet, and indeed, the system, on a solar scale; The war first sparked Space, with Off-World companies embargoing the export of vital fuel to the failing colonies of the Latin World; market reluctance sank the colony, which was subsequently bought up by the Asiatic League.


Republicanism is a vehemently contested idea and the defection of federation states to republican and neutral states cause infighting. [Europe] detests the idea of a European Monarchy, and has maintained seperate presidencies, an idea which has begun to take hold in [Colonia] too.
The *worst* debates for Republicanism occured years before the collapse, with [Colonia] and [Francia - BeNeLux-Germany] having attempted moves towards presidencies, and Ireland experiencing such a crisis during the time of the Collapse.

Pax Albrythica was for a time the undisputed air and space superpower, yet rising  tensions, and a move of conflict closer to home, resulted in Deep Space Haulers turned Merchant Navies creating hybrid trade warfare in space. Once the Space Companies were subsumed by the emerging factions; the threat of international and interstellar war loomed.


[ALIENS? DID HUMANS DISCOVER ALIENS? OR DID THEY DISCOVER US, IN MICROSCOPIC FORM. HAVE HUMANS APPLIED ALIEN SCIENCE, CURING BLINDNESS WITH ALIEN MICRO-ORGANISMS, WORLDBUILDING,
 AND THESE MICRO-ORGANISMS TURN PEOPLE INTO THE ZOMBIES IN THE APOCALYPSE PART OF THE BOOK, FOR IT IS  THE GOD THAT WILL DESTROY US ALL?]

Mankind's spaceward expansion came to a stalemate and decline when the world faced cataclysm and divided along faction lines. 
The miracles learnt that were meant to unite humanity, the discovery of life underneath the ice moons of [Jupiter]. the Gas Mines of Tiberna, 'the Slingshot to the Stars'



                                                        [THE COLLAPSE STARTS]
Nobody knows who struck first here on [Earth], but in regards to the space war it is known that a vessel loaded with nuclear weapons rammed itself through the Hyperlane and subsequently detonated itself over [Kashmir? Middle East? Sarrissa? a space colony?].
The detonation had the knock-on effect of shattering the nearest satellite to [the planets name], [moon name]
Collision time, five months.
The global panic that thus followed was never recovered from. The next three months were critical.

The world powers now faced the challenge of the inability to go to space; fuel prices skyrocketted, and the incoming debris levelled cities at the maximum and occasionally still showers down to this day, though most of it is annihilated in the atmosphere upon entry now, as the largest piece was annihilated.
The largest piece moved slowly, had a relatively large rotational speed, and could be eviscerated through a well-co-ordinated action, but such a move may leave the other side vulnerable in the space race once things re-established.
The honour of saving humanity, and the sacrifice of disarming yourself in doing so.

Albrythica's monarchy *stepped up* and in the first act from the royal government in over two hundred years, they declared war on extinction.
This was, is, a noble thing, but one misinterpreted in the haze of the geopolitics of the late [21st Century.]
The ensuing nuclear war from countries whom thought the nuclear strikes were aimed at them doomed humanity?


The Collapse occurs therein; nuclear exchange in the biggest fuckup in history; all it took was one man to launch at the same time as Britain, and thus everyone launched against eachother, in a feint, all because of a interstellar nuclear terrorist who caused a chain reaction of ensuing bleakness.



                                     (DEEP LORE, HISTORY OF THE WORLD.)

3.5 Billion Years ago, life was born.
Less than a Billion Years into the existence of our world, Biological life began to emerge, from "LUCA - Last Universal Common Ancestor"

What is forgotten is the life before it; for if it is a miracle that life was born once on this world, then surely for it to exist twice is a blessing too.
A biochemistry utterly different from the carbon-based life of today; the first life was living chemistry in the pourous rock of an ancient lake at the oldest spot of significance in the world, long since eroded over by continents and time.
It comes back, haunts humanity, using the power of living chemistry to erode humanity with a touch-sensitive rot plague like the Flood that melts carbon based life upon contamination.
These people become toxic and their skin can malform and rot with metallic scabs that peel off and unnatural fluids of toxins festering in cysts in skin and bone.

The Old Gods have their living chemical plague, utilising a form of lead/tin? posioning.
"Plumbarius" "Stannum"
ALSO make note, as Huxley did, of the "ingenious" means of war of a generation gone.

Heiðinnlög - The Heathen Law

Nobody knows when the Hans first came to the island. Heiðinnlög (of tributary jarl german vikings) was then the centre of conquest for much of the shores of the continent, raiding the civilised world, which ended at the (get the map done, you know where this should be really mentally.)
 and adapting its army to expand into yet uncivilised territories.

The Archipelago, at this time, was but a backwater of clans and company-unions, oathtakers all, squabbling over old rivalries and shared borders, minor glories and temporary powers. The balance was shifted when the invaders came.

Nobody rightly knows what drove the Heiðinnlög (West or East from Europe?), much is forgotten from our ancient histories, beyond the broad facts. The culture lingers where the history allows it to. Perhaps these expeditionary raider-kings set out to escape what was to come, given the gift of foresight, or perhaps they just wished to risk all for the chance to wear a crown, a ringlet, to get a larger holding.
(Midlands-SouthWest-Wales) became vassalised, North-Scotland-Ireland raided and major cities were established to expand further inland, but it was not to last for more than 25 years. The Hans presence established some political borders, but what was to follow ensured a power imbalance in the islands to last for its entire union.

If the Hans ever seeked to look back Home, once in (England,) they could no longer. By the time they had established a new Kingdom to subjugate, the Hordes arrived from the East, and with them, a plague that struck the kingdoms the Old Army could muster, as well as eventually (England-Wales.) This plague stretched to even the Archipelago for a short duration, though only a few centres were affected, due to locality to wounded, and the strict loyalty to jarls that these Hans posessed.

To look (West or East from Europe?), was for many, to look at a sickness upon the Northern Empire of Heiðinnlög. To look (East or West from Europe?) as (The Conqueror) did, was to look for fertile lands, and a kingdom, easy enough to grab, if one only had the time to prepare.
Within three years the (Normanised) had mustered strength and bannermen seize and redistribute (England), and leave the Hans only Scotland-Ireland to plunder. This, too, was not to last. 

A runaway kingdom had converted religions, and (Normanised) in (Francia-Normandie) and claimed the English crown for itself, claiming to be the heirs of the legitimate rulers of the last kings of (the old celtic kingdom) through a tapestry. Their Kingdom had claimed the first conquered island in England, yet the Island was removed enough from the Coast to not be considered in the Heiðinnlög proper but a Vassal state. This was a get-out clause for the realm,
In truth, they had been deligitimised through a succession crisis; the heir was a lady, and ladies were not allowed to hold lands unmarried.

The family wound up in Francie, and upon marrying nobility, (with emphasised beauty and betrothal and fairytale marriage) inherited a large part of France. (This heir was able to manage to bribe her way into large holdings for her future heirs. Remember this. The gift of the Cat.)
This crown, however, had converted to the new religion, which, in fairness, was spreading to the Hans, too, but was renounced by any independent (celtic). The Crown's new religious attitude was welcomed by the Francs in exchange for, upon leaving Francia, they renounce claims to all but a treaty port for the maintenance of goods exchange, and to continue moving its goods out of the land they would cede should they win.Not tributary, but aligned in goods exchange, and intertest for the (Francs) to wrest control of the Archipelago, and convert the islands through a true new line of succession.
(Francify)


It was later the (Unionists) arose. These people persecuted the (North-Scotland) as kingdoms would become independent a generation later, given the armistice of the tribes and the union of the celtic tribes behind a prophet king, sent to rout the invaders and secure the long sea. (the descendent is actually a main character wowie woah woah cool beans). 
She's Welsh-Midlands, not purely celtic anymore, but the blood is with her still. A queen of the Celts.)
















(SETTINGS)

The connection to the space-race is tenuous, and the British Isles are evidently the most advanced in Space and Airfaring, however, since the collapse, they have been set back.
Our destiny to expand, spacebound, as a species, has faded solely to the dying hopes of some elites who can afford to still dream.
The reality of needing space to survive is clear, if only to escape this world.
Since the exchange, no contact has been had from the old colonies on desolate mining moons and tourist destinations on historical space sites for the ultrawealthy.
The space elevator lies dormant.
For now.


Lupine grows and restores soil with nitrogen in steep places, with degraded landscapes. Make urban ruins that have been left abandoned that have flat land behind the city be filled with lupine, with a collapsed rubble pile blowing it into the wind.
Later, some dialogue will talk about how it is a sign of regrowth and is good for the soil, for new life to take root, in time.

Floods in the Satellite towns of (Fake Liverpool) on the Moorlands above it, a bit removed from (Fake Manchester)
Houses can collapse when the new higher sealevels lap into the inner towns, during storms, the water rises and gunfights can cause destruction in limited areas?
Shoot the red bits?

And a Dam mission.

Spiders build webs over wetland bog ponds inbetween regenerated trees. Flooded towns with trees on hills above, willow trees and raised land showing webs intersecting and moving down into a town, others are undead, this one is spider.
This town had a zoo which contained hundreds of types of spiders and insects, the Archipelago's chief division of zoology for insects was here, and the Bark Spider... Won.

Webs can span over 65m, way longer than real life Darwin's Bark Spiders, and their increased size and ferocity towards other life extends to Humans who intersect with the silk.
But oh, is this material valuable later on.

Satellite Towns; (Birmingham's) satellite towns survived, and the further east it went, and (fake Hereford) er it gets, the safer it gets for order, but the more authoritarian that order becomes. 

High up, in the mountains, perhaps in (Fake Scotland) or (Fake Snowdonia) there lies the highest mountain in the world. The isles were known globally for their seasalt, peat, musk, and pale gray and blue shores, mist in the mountains, with many from this region attesting keen mountaineering skills on slopes that ranged from easy to hard depending on the region, and the topography. Many also enjoyed a religious life, safe in a time-old tradition of rural celtic traditions, not all of which were removed but instead merged to form (Presbytarianism)
Anyway, 
When the world ended, many nations thought that rapture would come, tsunamis would engulf the island, and they might have needed arks to escape, Hence, the massive investment in post-catastrophe surviveability high up in the hard to reach places, contested by old Market Liberal held puppet regions, bought off lords and CEO's with brothers in high places, the sort. 
There are some arks left there, should the world turn to catastrophe.
Ships, that can survive while the world below is wrought.
They are airborne and naval, many still under construction for the future, to be maintained should they be needed, to self-sustain with as much stuff as they can carry to escape and (recolonise.)
(LATER)
Perhaps these boats are used? The sea is a god in and of itself, if it is stoked through magic, through psionic forces, through human forces, through nature, repelling at us, whatever explanation, and all of them, some caused by ourself some caused by the Dirge for the Planet
The arc is hit, but forced to cast off, and watch the world below be swamped. Whether it was defended (or not), you will either help it counter the problem, or see the world fail.
Sequel, or ending.
To reach these places, one can find a lift.
It is an old ski resort, though, ironically, you actually go underneath, and through a place, to reach it, and the ski resort is merely a location you travel up, to find the base. Bond-Esque.


Lake Effect Snow - Area with lots of lakes, surrounded by flats, then mountains, then flats, then coast? Okay.
That's a large open field, lets add snow to these areas in winter!
They're the cold bits.
Mountains too, though some can have forest beneath c:


A SeaStead off the coast divvies up new landborders, those left divide between themselves and attempt to frame themselves as fighting 'for' the people they rule over, tying cultural identity into onwards policy.
Marxists cry progress, the statist and junta districts organise for duty, and mercantilist regions speak of funding the great rebound and engineering solutions through funding and mercantilism, citing progress.

A Seastead, a seat of power from which it was decided; Interregnum
Many of them used to exist, as means of offshore funding. Freeports and floating casinos, migrating south in Winter.


A VERTICAL CITY - SKYHOOK - SPACE HISTORY


A town, with a tower (and space hook, with 3 main buildings with tensile cables to support it, like a tripod) so large that the residents can tell the time of day by where the shadow is casting. It is situated on the hill of the town, which overlooks the softer rock shores below, as the town curves around from sea to castle rock. This gives the impression of the tower having an even higher ascent, being on the high rocky ground overlooking the town, with a fortified "upper" district clearly present.
The tower has cables that run down to the town below, using resalvaged pylons; clearly a newer rennovation of the old fortress, providing power to the settlement, given the death of the National Grid.
(The power flows Downhill.)
The pylon-towers are joined to buildings in the Old Town, such as an ancient bridge of the river, the centre of town with its own beta-tower with fortifications, and a connection to an industrial district/slum, with more rudimentary timing? Idk?

The tower serves as a skyhook; from there, ships used to be launched towards the space tether; a wormhole-like FTL system of folding space, to travel to the Moon, and, to the outer colonies, of the other worlds, before the collapse ensured their imminent demise.
The nations of the world doomed mankind's endeavours in space once more, and no nation has managed to resurrect its colonies, beyond the moon, and probing a gas giant (with a wormhole round it wooooooowowowoowowow)

The town's lower areas are made with imported Millstone, the newer built areas are made with contemporary materials, available to a civilisation set back massively in terms of ability to import/export. The level of development for regions is still relatively minor beyond fending for oneself, and so local resources are available, if reachable. Debris from abandoned towns NOT hit immediately by radation, those that fell after in squabbles and infighting in the  times of the Bleak Sun, is re-cycled, with whatever technology and information each region was afforded, available. This town was an industrial one, and so was able to recompense. The Moors provide an excellent fortress, but access to the river is what helps this town stay afloat; the walls guarding the city on this bank MUST be upheld. The opposite side of the town, on the outskirts, is deprioritised and is slumlike, being so far from the centre of problems and development. But before it lies the Industrial district, where the outskirts must also draw their power from.
They cannot rebel, because if they do, their power is disallocated.
But if they strike, the industrial region, and its resources, also terminate.


A Vertical city, which meets the ocean at the sea, with legs standing into the sea. The city below flooded a long time ago; one city is a dome, one, a spire, Architecture to show how Humanity has overcome the elements, and reached for the sky, and still clings to this dream.
The Vertical City meets the cliff-face above to allow transport to the island; this was evidently a major port for the sea, and for space.
The entire city's skyscrapers rings encircle the destroyed space elevator here; the structure remains damaged, but repairable here. Elsewhere, they have fallen into worse disrepair.

In the Vertical City, where the city is built upwards descending from a clifface to the ocean, with a deep natural harbour for a submersible dockyard, with skyscrapers fastened together in tall spires,
a mix of societal areas in the standing buildings, vertically, floor by floor, with floors either let or sublet. 
Like Dandelion's and the Tower Complex of Cyberpunk for player function and Kamino. 

This will make building identification amongst sprawl easily identifiable, making players know where to go more. The buildings will all have shit to do in them, but giving them names and identity through graffiti, factions, poverty level (lower-higher, on-the-nose, keep it simple) will help players know which is the one they need to be in. Wall Rose, Eldia, etc.
They may have been hollowed out and resurfaced as for ground floor needs, however the best houses are either untouched, or, rarer yet, redecorated, with preserved artefacts of old world homeliness. The fanciest rooms give off 1960s Mod design, or posher yet, such as Blinder's-like architecture.



The ground floors are abuizz with shops, foot traffic, in claustrophobic foot streets, as trains are far more reliable now with the lack of Oil Fuel for output.
It is the Damp Coal Mines that feed the logistics of goods transportation, lest, one travel by sea or air, both of which are hard to come by without exponential expense.


One such idea for a General Area of Interest would be a block of houses, which the player, or NPCs, may rent or conquer, wherein you can move people into houses to interract with them more often if you have good Karma with them.
Think like Fallout 4 Interior Settlements, but everything would be accessed through a different menu, because manually placing objects is bollocks
[Remember how you were thinking about the 118 in 9-1-1? Their layout of a kitchen upstairs and a floor for vehicles works well for a first ideal house, with the limited quarters being used as a small upstairs CAMP with limited bags in an old warehouse.]
Later bases are more developed.
Below is a pub, or some enterprise you can generate money with and have as a location for good times, for the happy moments of the story, as bleak as things are, it's a little piece of comfort in a Brave New World.



Farms on rooftops of cities forced to build upwards out of the floods.
Comments from the locals "This used to be a nice place before the SeaWall burst."
"They call them Chinampinos - borrowed the style from the New World, you know, - using the rooves of the collapsed skyscrapers to make concrete island rubble bowls, filled with soil, around the water, to create a mire and mangrove. Strange seeing them grow here, We heard about it from an old magnetic tape we bought from a passing traveller. I forgot where, though. [hispanic farming techniques in México City.

All the sediment that settled, all the soot, has made this place regrow with twisted vigour. The debris from the mountain that exploded, the skyscrapers collapsing, the satellites falling, and lets not forget the crashing of the moon's resources in moon miner accidents on the night the skies turned black.


In the larger islands, and the conjoined mounds of rubble that stretch to meet the new estuary's banks, you can fish, swim, and hunt and build to your hearts desire, mind you don't mind being in the radiation and open, of course. Some manage to camp out there, build shacks. Must be awful nasty shacking up on the surface though, I think.
[, some better than others]



[Napoleonic Alt?? Modern Alt?]

Remember the holotape shyte
(Sevastapol) is a battleground worth talking about too in allegory to the past.
We'll do a history segment on Sevastapol, failures in command, supply shortages, and the horrors of war. "Nearing every battle from the time of the battles of Balaclava and the Light Brigade and Battle of Inkerman, 1/3rd of combatants on all sides were lost."
"The Light Brigade lost half of its horses"

( (UK-Japan) alliance is still fondly remembered in alt-history. (UK) leads the vanguard alongside (Euro) (Indian) (Oceanian) (East Asian Tiger) allies against China whom had ensued in a policy of revanchist expansion after the defeat by the Europeans

"Three commanding officers, two who die within seconds of eachother, a third then breaks down and begins trying to organise a desperate defence. Once the first wave comes over, he is gunned down, sword/revolver and message/radio in hand." Future war parallel, 


Supply shortages, frozen winters. The Spring Mud season consumes wounded who take to drinking puddles out of thirst while waiting in overflowing medical centres.


Bitter cold.
Nothing like what would become in the Nuclear Winter though.
Winter clothing supply ships were sunk.
King of Sardinia bolsters the ranks.

The war caused upheaval at home, aNorth-South divide, as well as a City/Rural gap. 
In Europe, Socialism is born in Ruralism and Southern Delight, and in Northern Coal and Iron mines and the birth of an industrial Paris and Amiens. (alt history). Called the Rossignol (new faction to expand on and create mythos for)
in the rurals, and the Commune, and later the Syndicalists (Britain)


Red Zone - Global Economic Progress has halted; only the Archipelago remains! Since primitive communications were re-established with some closer nation-states, whom are in a comparable position to ourselves, the ability to trade/communicate on the Blue Highway has been frought with danger.

~Storms
~Rogue Submarine AI Packs
~Monsters
~And At some point a fuck off Navy

The ability to once again establish a maritime stronghold and not rely solely on land, and for the ultra-rich, air, is a priority for the government.













                                                      (MONSTERS AND SHIT)
Fungi; The game shows a verdantly overgrown building on the outskirts which used to be a museum of types of fungi, wherein we encounter one person who has joined the colony of fungi. His body was the first to succumb here, but he is not the first, just the first we meet.(For others, turned, you must look beyond, into a nuclear pit.)
The museum includes a section that says a Fungus was used to excrete a chemical able to digest plastic, and avaricious it was in the recycling factories. It got out of hand when leaked into a landfill once, but the government simply buried it alive with a layer of concrete, yet, also, built this Museum atop it, so it can be used as both recycling centre and as a scientific research centre, but a museum on the surface, 50 miles above the remains of the Old Town, beneath, paved over during the Great War, and still standing from the Nuclear one.
 (In the business, this is what we call, foreshadowing)


This museum looks like it is still standing, and the ware-and-tear is minimal, given it can still be frequented, yet it is verdantly overgrown inside, and has nothing hostile (at first) [beyond some light puzzled to keep the player entertained.]

The museum details; the plants have no problem integrating into a symbiotic relationship, with the fungi growing, and supplying it with nutrients; carbons at first. The Fungi essentially triggered the growth of plants from the water's edge, from lilyworts and moss, towards leafed plants and trees, flowers, fruits, nuts. All thanks to the symbiosis that allowed the start of the move to land, for plants.
Without fungi, we would have no life on the surface.
The fungi cannot survive in mammalian life; our blood temperature is outside their comfort zone, and they can instead mainly infect cold-blooded animals and plants, if at all.
Bats hibernate in winter, and their body temperature drops. They become susceptible to fungal infection at this time, despite being warmblooded.

(SOME species can survive in warm-blooded animals, and can form a symbiosis with them, in my game)
Bringing a scientist along with you on this mission will reward you with an interesting dialogue option you can explore.

Prototaxites as tall as trees have overgrown in the garden, having beaten out the trees inside.
The museum explains this in the section dedicated to Prototaxites, that they lost to the arrival of insects, which could eat away, due to their being no bark.
Outside, however, they are not winning. (yet, wait for part 2)

In the expanse of death following the meteorite, the fungi helped speed up the decomposition and reclamation of flora from the brink of extinction.
Here, the fungi have gone abberant; this system located here has turned rogue, and began using their newfound symbiosis with the ants to begin to attack the forest and to establish themselves in a new cordon.

The ants are hostile to all other life beyond the fungi; the scientist pays you handsomely for a sample.

Given it's outside ofn the city, however, a nest of fire ants, the queen, and workers, all infected with fungi, have began multiplying (in the garage section, left open, and in a nearby woods?)
Corpse Flowers and Larger Ants. Fungal spread in massive gigacomplex greenhouse institutes.
Biomass. Fertilise.  Consume. Conservate/Expand. Biomass. Fertilise. 
Burrow.
Burrow.
Burrow.
Ants digest the fungus; this gives them toxic effects.
Slugs that frequent the ground near these trees leave a trail of resin behind them.
Spiderweb fungi Poison shit. (Not void here)
Poison Arrow Tree Sap bioaugmentation.
At night, the fungi feeding on the poison resin resonates as two rival chemical compounds interact and form artificial bioluminescence.
The light generated pulses brightly atop the ants and their fungus farm.
A heart of warmth that seeps into the ants' nests
The digestion of tree matter by fungus feeds nutrients, and at night, allows for bioluminescence, as the toxic resin and the fungus causes select conifers and ferns and treestumps to be embewed with the fungi and to glow as brightly as them, while others yet still are harvested around these; no aspen, no oak, just carboniferous era.
(Later)
(The ants in the next game show they have won, establishing bracket fungi, and then the prototaxites.
The ants have learned how to farm plant forests into fungi forests. Spores and Spores and Spores emitted when the wind breaks through the nest; the region ovverun with fungus in conservation has a new pressurised air corridor to break through and infect the rest of the ecosystem; a route of heavy spore growth, pressurised, contained, feeding on vulnerable plants. )

Tree species that aren't susceptible to (new) mutations of fungus overpowering them. The ants attack them. It has no counter-measure and has been out-evolved, the ants burrow away in the woods, and build a nest catacombs stretching for miles underground.
The fungus grows at a rate never before seen, the ants are merely caretakers, trimming and growing the land around; it spreads to the surrounding forest, avoiding conifers and pine, infiltrating ferns and moss, killing grass and oak and aspen and birch, with ants gnawing some down that the fungus cannot kill off.

An outbreak! People as cold as the dead, then turning dead, and then decomposing at unnatural rates!
These people carry the spores that will infect the first humans!
They come back from the expedition to reclaim this part of town, in body bags, killed by ants.




Tribalised people out in the wilds will salvage broken guns and create "Handgonnes."
https://youtu.be/8drmKDUwBvU
Reasonably high damage, easy maintenance, but simple, one shot, unrifled slug.
So not a single shotgun, a single rifle.
A team of these does well good in a cutscene; line infantry used in the woods like Arwemen of old.
Then they can switch to bows, or have supporting bowmen with fire.

Travellers found encroached by roots of forests, consumed amidst the reclamation of nature on battlefields. Loot deteriorates overtime and bodies grow into mushroom piles, vines, etc in areas where battles happened long ago in the story, for later arcs, in later years.





                                                      (THE TOXICITY- THE ENDTIMES)
It starts in Bleak Sun; we see gravesites turn toxic; people took refuge in graves as they collected the dead and buried those too sick to be moved, sometimes still alive, in order to process the stem of people coming in from the cities hit by nuclear disaster.
Toxic graves. The air above them gives anomalous readings of high chemical expungents; very unusual, and with no explanation as to why they are producing such chemicals, beyond the radiation and decomposition of so many graves' worth of people.
Bleak Sun's graves turn into toxic bogs overgrown in the later games. I imagine a grave in a flooded town, with a thick ambience for the player to waddle through.

OK SO PHASE 1 AND PHASE 2 OF INCURSION, THE ENEMY CHANGES, ADAPTS. THIS IS THE END, THEY INVADE, THEY ADAPT, THEY OVERCOME. THEY START WITH INFANTRY, THEN FROM THE GROUND ITSELF THE MACHINES RISE, WALKING ENGINES OF [STONE?FLESH?SOMETHING SCARY/COOOOOL] Walking automatons, relics of our inevitable surplantation by the stewards of older gods.
Humanity has failed in its stewardship, the Earth will supplant us.

"The ground gave way from under me, and I felt with horror that I had seen this awful thing before."
(Then, the machines arrive, and the lightshow gets kicking)

[Counter-attacking the Incursion.]
Artilleryman:
1) His unit was wiped out, he is a refugee, much as anyone else.

2) I remained transfixed at the frontline, overlooking the fight, while on the far bank, a fifth machine appeared, rearing to charge directly through the river and counter the crowd surging across it. The hilltop fell at once from worried discussion to the sounds of overbearing incomprehension of the situation, as the machine blasted its siren, and jumped, from the hill, onto the bridge, smashing through scores of buildings in the way as it finally landed. The Artillerymans eyes flinched when it finally landed, his lip quivering as it righted itself. It was like he expected it to sense him, from this far away, and leap atop him next. I wouldn't call that fear irrational, though. Just proactive.

The size of it was astonishing, flattening the bridge with but one dive. The machine unpacked its arsenal across the centre of the town, to the South of the river. The corpses stopped landing by the time we heard the first screams of those on the other bank. The machine, sneering downwards at those attempting to flee, had followed swiftly upon them with a levelling ghast of its incendiary rays. A cold wind swept the hill as the machine began moving in the opposite direction. We could choose to go through the town, still, sure, but that machine would hinder us at any opportunity. (Gameplay mission would be fun here if the mechanics are up for it)


3) We walked past a unit preparing defences; six mobilised gun crews ready to advance, with more moving around amongst the lines of refugees as they head off.

He is ignored by the soldiers as he walks past, still wrapped in bandages. He denotes the futility of the present situation. "As useful as an arrow barrage to strike the Lightning."

3) After clearing the convoy, they passed through to a local bridge-town. There was a heavy explosion, a new sighting nearby. The crowd began to surge when they heard the now unmistakable call of incoming erradication. Acoustical forebearance of ones imminent demise.
The Artilleryman shouts and exclaims, as the bridge is next targetted by an airborne assault of these vermin (Who are they? Robotic? Magic? Is this the BIG BIG war? at the end with the cult?)

gun-crews fire from the woods nearby, bringing fire and flame down on the hills above the town. We see the fighting machine rise above the skirmish on the outskirts, wreathed in flame, yet walking towards the flanks, and preparing firing a direct line across its immediacy to vanquish any who yet remained close.

4) (We push east, with more conversation along the way. We see families attempting to huddle together where they can, but at every junction we hear people calling out in vein for loved ones lost, never to be found again. The Military keeps things under control, but a looter is executed in the town square. The Artilleryman walks right past it while still singing a song to himself, while I slow to look at his face. He is barely older than twelve..)

5) (The machines depart units, the town is under siege after they have travelled further east to avoid this town. It seems they have a steady frontline forming, and we cannot penetrate through it with conventional weapons.)
(The units use weapons never seen before, that are attatched to their suits so they cannot be removed. Remember the PNG of the Stormtrooper armour bone shit? Use them guys if you have to.)


Some major characters sacrifice themselves in the incursions on other frontlines.
Later on, when probing and reconning the machines is shown, by other characters.


The gods can control animals affected by the Earth's Magnetic Field.

In the simple understanding of this; their influence on the Noosphere is known, though the average person in the muck doesn't know.
This should have the same feeling as the Conjunction of the Spheres. Few know of it outside of knowledge circles, except madmen who have misinterpreted it, or propagandists having bartered and extorted half-truths.
Some claim to have seen birds acting strange, maybe even hostile, depending on [xyz factor].


In later discoveries, which the player will hear through characters, such as Katterin, in circles; 
It has to do with lines, or sites, or fields. Anomalies are involved, somehow. Though, which way they guide, we are yet to find out.






















                                                      (MISC WORLDBUILDING)


Celtic Myths ; Kelpies, Each-Uiscge
Kelpies are water spectral horses in Celtic legend that have spectral luring powers near Lochs.
Their name means "colt"
Kelpies are the males.
They're nice at first to lure you in, then they strike.

Black dark-grey or white horse, with sticky like spiders, wet mane, always, reversed hooves?
You touch it, you get stuck, it drags you underwater.
It pretends to be your friend on land, then when you touch it, it pulls you in.

So, enemies that you help once in the wild, then you encounter it later, it pretends to be your friend, then fights you.
You CAN learn that they trick their friends later and try and kill them, backstabbing you in the story being hinted at in the in game texts

The werewolf lore of the UK is deep rooted, and this can be reflected in the mythos of the lore as we dig into the surface of the old world and its history and how its different from ours.

You first encounter some standing stones when stalking a wolf's howl. Only then can you progress the mythos story, by finding the spot where the wolf howls. The weather should change too the closer you get, always, to mist. The music needs to change when you near this region of the woods to something more primal, more animal, more antiquated, whereas at night it gets violent, and wolves stalk the grounds chasing stags.






GUNS and AMMO are currency, as well as PARTS and expensive items; bartered
GOLD is the standard currency.
WATER is also acceptable.

Horrors that seep through to OUR world leave realm tears.
The creatures in the swimming pool, swim through the floor. As above so below.
Hidden passageways, Realm Tears, etcs.



A house haunted by an old lady,
the lights flicker when you use the teakettle (in the quest, interactible)
at a certain time of day, when visited, you hear the sound of knitting.
Then jumpscare if you find the nitting needles.


Hightower is the home of religion in GoT, and House of the Dragon shows the use of Religious symbolism to cover up the Targaryen Dynasty. Perhaps, (Cornwall.)

Perhaps a city with a more pious leader takes down the symbols of the previous regime, and can cause upset while moving towards zeal.
Slow steps, to Presbytarian Pocalypse.

The map will show where the nukes hit, and the levels will reflect this; the cities that weren't hit aren't necessarily safe, though.
The geological and tectonic and isolated years have weathered even the most prepared of settlements.








































Key:

Placenames:
Placenames much like the world is WIP.
The rest of this, is worldbuilding context.
On the planet Talamh,
or Litavia (named after the celtic god of the Earth
or Cruinneog (gaelic for globe)
or Terros,
or Teangrth,
Monarquay.

(Dagai, Celtic God of the Earth, and Gaia, Greek god of the World.)
(Tengrii Earth, Teangrth)






City Names:
Hellhal, Hallowhal. Ramstop. Tunsall. Wareweir. Mirwell. Slaton. Sqóldir. Greenacre. Windacre. Fletcherstall. Abergwynn. Dubhalgh. Königtown, becomes Kernington. Moat Pictii. Summerisle.
Senobriw. Llynford (Snowdonia district)

Tir Gáel. Tir Mór. Tir Cragh. Ireland, Mann, and Craggy Island (The Sodor like one)

France is called Plaissant (ple-sonht) or is this Arcadie.
Germany is called Dietterland, after Diets, a hallowed warrior clan of old.
Russia is called Sklavonia after the unification of a Sklavic superstate. 
Saudi is called Sarissa, Iraq is called El Mesoqwaiti, but ask an arab to fix this name.
Scandi is called Nilslånd or Tyrlånd or something of the sort.
America is called Colonia unofficially, or Nova Albrythica, the New Albion. CANADA is Arcadie maybe.