Storms in Scotland/Ireland that freeze people if they get caught out in a night-time white-out.


Psionic storms once every 2 weeks that demand the player hide; similar to Emissions or Rad Storms but make them your own.


Floods in old cities that make an underwater explorable section if you can get inside safe rooms that hadn't yet been flooded.
This is built alongside a new city, stratified and walled off from the flooded section known know as OldTown


Blood Diamond inspired me to write a character that is bailed out of prison because he knows something, but the baddies know it to. The location of [x] 



Cadaver pages, mad scientist, "zis one is broken" stuff.
Hehehehehehhe.

Works.

New chapter idea.




You've got the introductory scene idea with the outpost and wandering through the dark in a full kit. you need to make that immersive.
Starting it slow like that doesn't really build that much action.
I need to place heat at the start or some foreshadowing.
The Batman does this well by showing the horror on a TV.
Children of Men does this well by having TVs on and having a trip for a cup of coffee.
Maybe I'm going to a mess hall in an underground base, preparing for the day at the surface.
Maybe it begins as I wake up, having dreamt about the old world.
It begins with a dream.
For in our dreams, the universe magic shit be like woah for some people
psionic breaches have given ppl nightmares, however in this world some people can obtain dreams that do this and that.







You've got a farewell scene idea, that needs work, with the characters all united and discussing where they're going to next, whats inspiring them on their journey, as we learn about how each of them has completed the main objective in Act 1, having come together from seperate people into one group, anonymously, but from different perspectives.







https://youtu.be/x8KZZW6yNZU
Around about 5 and a half minutes in
"Physiological needs, safety needs" People who have had these violated will be less confident in others, and will be visibly shaken.
Feral, in worst case.
People fighting for their lives don't have time to worry about if they're anything more than 'still alive', as if they fear for anything else they will collapse. They need to perform, multitask, even, to be able to get through whatever they're going through, or they WON'T make it.