Project Pseudonyms: "On a Horse called Noble." "Project Irwell" "Albrythica Project"

If you need inspiration for things throughout your time away from Uni, your old chats with Tobias, James, and your late night film binges n all

Just a shame to let those inspirations go to waste init


Remember imagery for the book: The image of the shattered moon, a satellite covered in moss, the celtic runestones,  the ideas for maps.

Also, you've got shit in the Google Docs not in here, and here, needs moving to google docs. So, chop chop!










(THE PRETEXT TO NUCLEAR WAR)

Colonia; Nova Albrythica; the New Albion, the New World. For centuries it showed such promise, and with our dominion over the continent ensured by presidential and royal marriage intertwining the presidency into hereditary status; and with a president of the people, and with a prime minister for the people, New Albion prospered, dominionised, and then, in time, free, of the British crown.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yfolh7S7u0U
(American) 21st Century History; Civil War, factionalism in each region. Disunity. Then isolationism after its civil war.
Across the brineloch, bridged by igneous causeways and bights, stacks, heads; and fuckall islets.. civil war raged. We remained united, until the bombs fell.
"Dissent within the previously legitimate republican government is crumbling now; the civil war was merely gasoline for even more chaos, yet waiting, as even more organised governments have trouble maintaining unity under division. The tide turns every day, and no-one knows when the madness will end, if ever.
Some of the more powerful states such as Pacifica and Cascád (Cascadia) have declared independence from the republic outright.  This brings a possibility that Nova Albrythica will never reunite, but will fracture permanently.
Tens, if not hundreds of millions of (Americans) have died, lost their homes, or have fled, causing the largest refugee crisis in history. The sheer number of refugees threatens to destabilise not only Nova Albrythica, but step across the causeway, and into Albrythica itself."

("A thousand ideologies all calling for you to die for them.. Not too different to now, I suppose" I reflected.)
The Second republic of Deseret;
 The Federal Union of (America (Constitutional);
 Cascád(ia);
 Pacifica;
 Holy (American) See/Sanctum;
 N.A. Restoration Army (American-British special forces);
 United (American) Technosyndicate;
 (Navajo Nation);
 American Republic (Trumpist); w/ Free (American) State (Suburbia of New England revolt)
New Albrythica (New England)


Laurentia / Colonia / Albionoria (Canada)
Vesperia 'The land of the evening star' (Oceania (If it is to the far West)
(Or should Albionoria be Scotland, and Albioestra be Ireland, if Ireland is indeed to the east, and Europe is to the West.)



British public demanded an end to the war
Shadow of the Valley of Death.

"A spectre haunts the isles, and the continent alike.
The spectre of the gentry."



"All the powers of the old continent have entered into a holy alliance to reaffirm this spectre. Holimen and Czars, Kyngs and Barons, affronted by factions such as the 'Weeping Reverence' (New Testament God's Catholic church standin), and the Penatent Wing (Old Testament) stand in common opposition to the likes of Vieuxtine (French) radicals and the Staatvolk of the old Mittellander (pronounced Mittle Ander in English, Mittelaender in fake German) folk. When a native of Mittellander speaks, they accent the name of the country, showing the spelling difference, and pronunciation.
Our own comrades, the seperatist regional proletariat, arguing for independence from the realm, seek to cause dissolution on our own soils."
Row, Once more, Brothers
Row, Once more, Brothers
Row us back across, to our home.
Through wind, sleet, snow, and pestilence
Through hail of shrapnel and test of patience
Row once more, brothers
(Find the communist manifesto and alter it for seperatism and leftism instead of communism, and make maximism a continental extreme, remembir)



















[Faction Lines - World War and Post-War Alt History]


 Albrythica and the Dutch, then later Acquitaine, Prussia, and Belgique form an economic community which subsequently integrated Western Europe through Free Trade. Prussia loses a revolutionary war and becomes socialist.
"Abroad, revolution stirred once more, from separatists and nationalists and socialists hellbent on upending the treatises of Monarquay." (Capitol city name?) "The Asiatic League may have aligned itself as the enemy of our enemy, but did not turn to be a friend of the Liberal Order once the National-Revanchists were forced into surrender."

[FFWD 120 YEARS]
[Cold War throughout Europe, Germany and the Eastern Bloc caught inbetween, divided, or rebellious, or fractuous.]
[Cold War fractures United States and Russia grows. Federation begins to lose hold of India.]
[Peace has existed, borders and alliances have changed.]
The United States has confederalised along its divisive politics, with certain regions having waged 'freedom' wars and seceded their territories, whilst others still remained loyal.

The Federation of Equals has fractured, with a newly independent Indian Republic taking with it the hopes of peace in Asia.
India is forced to stand alone against the Asiatic League; spurred on by a war along its [Pakistani] and [Omani-Yemeni] borders over a new ethnostate. Then [Burma the Malayan Peninsula, and the Thai Isthmus] all declare their independence.

The borders of Europe stand near fractured after the complete market collapse that then ensues both internally and geopolitically in relation to [Russia] and [Africa].

['Sarissa'; Coalition Wars in the Middle East, divide Continental and Atlanticist Federalrelations further. The Federation shifts in the European Balance of Power]
systemic disagreement on the growing isolationism of the British from their federal responsibilites, and the growing wilful neglect by the [South] to powershare in the Archipelago's Regional Assembly, create internal strife.
[Space Brexit]
A long and uneasy peace ended after the resolution of a conflict which the revolutionaries deemed too much, nuclear war looms over the planet, and indeed, the system, on a solar scale; The war first sparked Space, with Off-World companies embargoing the export of vital fuel to the failing colonies of the Latin World; market reluctance sank the colony, which was subsequently bought up by the Asiatic League.


Republicanism is a vehemently contested idea and the defection of federation states to republican and neutral states cause infighting. [Europe] detests the idea of a European Monarchy, and has maintained seperate presidencies, an idea which has begun to take hold in [Colonia] too.
The *worst* debates for Republicanism occured years before the collapse, with [Colonia] and [Francia - BeNeLux-Germany] having attempted moves towards presidencies, and Ireland experiencing such a crisis during the time of the Collapse.

Pax Albrythica was for a time the undisputed air and space superpower, yet rising  tensions, and a move of conflict closer to home, resulted in Deep Space Haulers turned Merchant Navies creating hybrid trade warfare in space. Once the Space Companies were subsumed by the emerging factions; the threat of international and interstellar war loomed.


[ALIENS? DID HUMANS DISCOVER ALIENS? OR DID THEY DISCOVER US, IN MICROSCOPIC FORM. HAVE HUMANS APPLIED ALIEN SCIENCE, CURING BLINDNESS WITH ALIEN MICRO-ORGANISMS, WORLDBUILDING,
 AND THESE MICRO-ORGANISMS TURN PEOPLE INTO THE ZOMBIES IN THE APOCALYPSE PART OF THE BOOK, FOR IT IS  THE GOD THAT WILL DESTROY US ALL?]

Mankind's spaceward expansion came to a stalemate and decline when the world faced cataclysm and divided along faction lines. 
The miracles learnt that were meant to unite humanity, the discovery of life underneath the ice moons of [Jupiter]. the Gas Mines of Tiberna, 'the Slingshot to the Stars'



[The Beginning of the collapse]
Nobody knows who struck first here on [Earth], but in regards to the space war it is known that a vessel loaded with nuclear weapons rammed itself through the Hyperlane and subsequently detonated itself over [Kashmir? Middle East? Sarrissa? a space colony?].
The detonation had the knock-on effect of shattering the nearest satellite to [the planets name], [moon name]
Collision time, five months.
The global panic that thus followed was never recovered from. The next three months were critical.

The world powers now faced the challenge of the inability to go to space; fuel prices skyrocketted, and the incoming debris levelled cities at the maximum and occasionally still showers down to this day, though most of it is annihilated in the atmosphere upon entry now, as the largest piece was annihilated.
The largest piece moved slowly, had a relatively large rotational speed, and could be eviscerated through a well-co-ordinated action, but such a move may leave the other side vulnerable in the space race once things re-established.
The honour of saving humanity, and the sacrifice of disarming yourself in doing so.

Albrythica's monarchy *stepped up* and in the first act from the royal government in over two hundred years, they declared war on extinction.
This was, is, a noble thing, but one misinterpreted in the haze of the geopolitics of the late [21st Century.]
The ensuing nuclear war from countries whom thought the nuclear strikes were aimed at them doomed humanity?


The Collapse occurs therein; nuclear exchange in the biggest fuckup in history; all it took was one man to launch at the same time as Britain, and thus everyone launched against eachother, in a feint, all because of a interstellar nuclear terrorist who caused a chain reaction of ensuing bleakness.


GUNS and AMMO are currency, as well as PARTS and expensive items; bartered
GOLD is the standard currency.
WATER is also acceptable.


Wicca, Tarot, weaving it in.

The Fool - Tig; clueless to the banality of evil, and experiences it throughout his time getting seven shades of shit kicked out of him. The commonality of evil is explored too; people who know what they're doing is wrong, but don't care, because they justify this as their means of survival internally.
The level where one might commit crime with ruthless or a cautionary approach, where one might see the gruesome side as "just part of the job" whereas some might have a moral sensibility remaining, and not seek to do overt harm.
Ideas like wrong place wrong time, harsh upbringings and environments, trauma, and criminality create these grey areas for characters.
See Pulp Fiction, Red Dead 2.

The Heirophant

The Hermit - Smeagól 2.0

The Tower is the Catalyst of Destruction and New Order; Who is this?

The hanged man - the sacrifice 









(SETTINGS)

The connection to the space-race is tenuous, and the British Isles are evidently the most advanced in Space and Airfaring, however, since the collapse, they have been set back.
Our destiny to expand, spacebound, as a species, has faded solely to the dying hopes of some elites who can afford to still dream.
The reality of needing space to survive is clear, if only to escape this world.
Since the exchange, no contact has been had from the old colonies on desolate mining moons and tourist destinations on historical space sites for the ultrawealthy.
The space elevator lies dormant.
For now.


Lupine grows and restores soil with nitrogen in steep places, with degraded landscapes. Make urban ruins that have been left abandoned that have flat land behind the city be filled with lupine, with a collapsed rubble pile blowing it into the wind.
Later, some dialogue will talk about how it is a sign of regrowth and is good for the soil, for new life to take root, in time.

Floods in the Satellite towns of (Fake Liverpool) on the Moorlands above it, a bit removed from (Fake Manchester)
Houses can collapse when the new higher sealevels lap into the inner towns, during storms, the water rises and gunfights can cause destruction in limited areas?
Shoot the red bits?

And a Dam mission.

Spiders build webs over wetland bog ponds inbetween regenerated trees. Flooded towns with trees on hills above, willow trees and raised land showing webs intersecting and moving down into a town, others are undead, this one is spider.
This town had a zoo which contained hundreds of types of spiders and insects, the Archipelago's chief division of zoology for insects was here, and the Bark Spider... Won.

Webs can span over 65m, way longer than real life Darwin's Bark Spiders, and their increased size and ferocity towards other life extends to Humans who intersect with the silk.
But oh, is this material valuable later on.

Satellite Towns; (Birmingham's) satellite towns survived, and the further east it went, and (fake Hereford) er it gets, the safer it gets for order, but the more authoritarian that order becomes. 

High up, in the mountains, perhaps in (Fake Scotland) or (Fake Snowdonia) there lies the highest mountain in the world. The isles were known globally for their seasalt, peat, musk, and pale gray and blue shores, mist in the mountains, with many from this region attesting keen mountaineering skills on slopes that ranged from easy to hard depending on the region, and the topography. Many also enjoyed a religious life, safe in a time-old tradition of rural celtic traditions, not all of which were removed but instead merged to form (Presbytarianism)
Anyway, 
When the world ended, many nations thought that rapture would come, tsunamis would engulf the island, and they might have needed arks to escape, Hence, the massive investment in post-catastrophe surviveability high up in the hard to reach places, contested by old Market Liberal held puppet regions, bought off lords and CEO's with brothers in high places, the sort. 
There are some arks left there, should the world turn to catastrophe.
Ships, that can survive while the world below is wrought.
They are airborne and naval, many still under construction for the future, to be maintained should they be needed, to self-sustain with as much stuff as they can carry to escape and (recolonise.)
(LATER)
Perhaps these boats are used? The sea is a god in and of itself, if it is stoked through magic, through psionic forces, through human forces, through nature, repelling at us, whatever explanation, and all of them, some caused by ourself some caused by the Dirge for the Planet
The arc is hit, but forced to cast off, and watch the world below be swamped. Whether it was defended (or not), you will either help it counter the problem, or see the world fail.
Sequel, or ending.
To reach these places, one can find a lift.
It is an old ski resort, though, ironically, you actually go underneath, and through a place, to reach it, and the ski resort is merely a location you travel up, to find the base. Bond-Esque.


Lake Effect Snow - Area with lots of lakes, surrounded by flats, then mountains, then flats, then coast? Okay.
That's a large open field, lets add snow to these areas in winter!
They're the cold bits.
Mountains too, though some can have forest beneath c:


A SeaStead off the coast divvies up new landborders, those left divide between themselves and attempt to frame themselves as fighting 'for' the people they rule over, tying cultural identity into onwards policy.
Marxists cry progress, the statist and junta districts organise for duty, and mercantilist regions speak of funding the great rebound and engineering solutions through funding and mercantilism, citing progress.

A Seastead, a seat of power from which it was decided; Interregnum
Many of them used to exist, as means of offshore funding. Freeports and floating casinos, migrating south in Winter.


A VERTICAL CITY - SKYHOOK - SPACE HISTORY


A town, with a tower (and space hook, with 3 main buildings with tensile cables to support it, like a tripod) so large that the residents can tell the time of day by where the shadow is casting. It is situated on the hill of the town, which overlooks the softer rock shores below, as the town curves around from sea to castle rock. This gives the impression of the tower having an even higher ascent, being on the high rocky ground overlooking the town, with a fortified "upper" district clearly present.
The tower has cables that run down to the town below, using resalvaged pylons; clearly a newer rennovation of the old fortress, providing power to the settlement, given the death of the National Grid.
(The power flows Downhill.)
The pylon-towers are joined to buildings in the Old Town, such as an ancient bridge of the river, the centre of town with its own beta-tower with fortifications, and a connection to an industrial district/slum, with more rudimentary timing? Idk?

The tower serves as a skyhook; from there, ships used to be launched towards the space tether; a wormhole-like FTL system of folding space, to travel to the Moon, and, to the outer colonies, of the other worlds, before the collapse ensured their imminent demise.
The nations of the world doomed mankind's endeavours in space once more, and no nation has managed to resurrect its colonies, beyond the moon, and probing a gas giant (with a wormhole round it wooooooowowowoowowow)

The town's lower areas are made with imported Millstone, the newer built areas are made with contemporary materials, available to a civilisation set back massively in terms of ability to import/export. The level of development for regions is still relatively minor beyond fending for oneself, and so local resources are available, if reachable. Debris from abandoned towns NOT hit immediately by radation, those that fell after in squabbles and infighting in the  times of the Bleak Sun, is re-cycled, with whatever technology and information each region was afforded, available. This town was an industrial one, and so was able to recompense. The Moors provide an excellent fortress, but access to the river is what helps this town stay afloat; the walls guarding the city on this bank MUST be upheld. The opposite side of the town, on the outskirts, is deprioritised and is slumlike, being so far from the centre of problems and development. But before it lies the Industrial district, where the outskirts must also draw their power from.
They cannot rebel, because if they do, their power is disallocated.
But if they strike, the industrial region, and its resources, also terminate.


A Vertical city, which meets the ocean at the sea, with legs standing into the sea. The city below flooded a long time ago; one city is a dome, one, a spire, Architecture to show how Humanity has overcome the elements, and reached for the sky, and still clings to this dream.
The Vertical City meets the cliff-face above to allow transport to the island; this was evidently a major port for the sea, and for space.
The entire city's skyscrapers rings encircle the destroyed space elevator here; the structure remains damaged, but repairable here. Elsewhere, they have fallen into worse disrepair.

In the Vertical City, where the city is built upwards descending from a clifface to the ocean, with a deep natural harbour for a submersible dockyard, with skyscrapers fastened together in tall spires,
a mix of societal areas in the standing buildings, vertically, floor by floor, with floors either let or sublet. 
Like Dandelion's and the Tower Complex of Cyberpunk for player function and Kamino. 

This will make building identification amongst sprawl easily identifiable, making players know where to go more. The buildings will all have shit to do in them, but giving them names and identity through graffiti, factions, poverty level (lower-higher, on-the-nose, keep it simple) will help players know which is the one they need to be in. Wall Rose, Eldia, etc.
They may have been hollowed out and resurfaced as for ground floor needs, however the best houses are either untouched, or, rarer yet, redecorated, with preserved artefacts of old world homeliness. The fanciest rooms give off 1960s Mod design, or posher yet, such as Blinder's-like architecture.



The ground floors are abuizz with shops, foot traffic, in claustrophobic foot streets, as trains are far more reliable now with the lack of Oil Fuel for output.
It is the Damp Coal Mines that feed the logistics of goods transportation, lest, one travel by sea or air, both of which are hard to come by without exponential expense.


One such idea for a General Area of Interest would be a block of houses, which the player, or NPCs, may rent or conquer, wherein you can move people into houses to interract with them more often if you have good Karma with them.
Think like Fallout 4 Interior Settlements, but everything would be accessed through a different menu, because manually placing objects is bollocks
[Remember how you were thinking about the 118 in 9-1-1? Their layout of a kitchen upstairs and a floor for vehicles works well for a first ideal house, with the limited quarters being used as a small upstairs CAMP with limited bags in an old warehouse.]
Later bases are more developed.
Below is a pub, or some enterprise you can generate money with and have as a location for good times, for the happy moments of the story, as bleak as things are, it's a little piece of comfort in a Brave New World.



Farms on rooftops of cities forced to build upwards out of the floods.
Comments from the locals "This used to be a nice place before the SeaWall burst."
"They call them Chinampinos - borrowed the style from the New World, you know, - using the rooves of the collapsed skyscrapers to make concrete island rubble bowls, filled with soil, around the water, to create a mire and mangrove. Strange seeing them grow here, We heard about it from an old magnetic tape we bought from a passing traveller. I forgot where, though. [hispanic farming techniques in México City.

All the sediment that settled, all the soot, has made this place regrow with twisted vigour. The debris from the mountain that exploded, the skyscrapers collapsing, the satellites falling, and lets not forget the crashing of the moon's resources in moon miner accidents on the night the skies turned black.




In the larger islands, and the conjoined mounds of rubble that stretch to meet the new estuary's banks, you can fish, swim, and hunt and build to your hearts desire, mind you don't mind being in the radiation and open, of course. Some manage to camp out there, build shacks. Must be awful nasty shacking up on the surface though, I think.
[, some better than others]





Horrors that seep through to OUR world leave realm tears.
The creatures in the swimming pool, swim through the floor. As above so below.
Hidden passageways, Realm Tears, etcs.



A house haunted by an old lady,
the lights flicker when you use the teakettle (in the quest, interactible)
at a certain time of day, when visited, you hear the sound of knitting.
Then jumpscare if you find the nitting needles.



Officer or a Grunt meeting like in the Last of Us, so while children are growing into the world we can explore the civilian aspects of state organisations. Officers are fleshed out as the stories of soldiers is meshed inbetween, doing the work, but also showing the 'home front' so to speak.
Soldiers on frontlines when the horror hits.
Officers when the strategy is unveiled later on
And then a faction gets wiped to make the point bleak.






(The Victorian Gentlemanly Pagan - Summerisle ) Whiskers, bushy moustache, trimmed mutton chops, bare chin, stern frown, green and red tartan suit (or waistcoat), and a sash of tartan worn draped over the back, clearly displaying a sewn-on symbol of his clan dynasty from behind. He is royalty.
A picture of him wearing this suit and tartan, sat on a throne with a trident in one hand and an oak branch in the other; the oak is sacred to these peoples
His tour around his house and his talk of his family's various accomplishments back before the collapses. Emphasise that his family has remained the same, unchanged, in indulgent isolation, yet this will only parallel how the REST of the world is; forever changed.
His family built a vault under their house of things. (What?) (Food? Agrarian lord superpower with a plantation style system?) (Does he own Ireland?)

~What attracted him to Ireland?
The rich nitrogen soil in the long stretches of bog plains. The hills beside the ditches and valleys provided ample land for farming, it was isolated enough in the rural regions of already isolated Ireland and far enough away from Nuclear zones, to make conquering it and implanting oneself upon it easy.
The only problem was to set up Authority.
Re-establishing their Lordship was the... natural step for the family. (They Cromwelled Ireland and wiped their history of misdeeds from the record with the nuclear war, to make it as so they had always been there. The vaults detail this story)

His Experiments had led him to believe that the soil here was the one place left on the Archipelago where the Great Famine could be stopped; he highlights his achievements during the Bleak Sun Era, saving Ireland from starvation with the cultivation of rad-resistant fruit, with skins that can withstand the increased amount of beta rays, and with an injection of gamma-neutralising shit.

A greenhouse with a museum of fruit, and include a Maypole outside just for the reference.

"These islanders needed little encouragement"

The ministers had previously said that if God had wanted us to tamper the fruit

Those ministers ate their words as the 'Lord Summerisle' esque villain, maybe the Voice of Reason, went about a de-christification and a persecution and a return to more pagan ways, a celebration of tangible holidays like solstice instead of the decaying faith left in [Ireland] of Christendom. The paganisation begins thanks to these ULSTER-SCOTS Presbytarian-Pagan lords.
Warm gulf stream rips its way up [Fake Ireland's] crescent coast, allowing for all sorts of tropical plants on [Summer Isle]


Hightower is the home of religion in GoT, and House of the Dragon shows the use of Religious symbolism to cover up the Targaryen Dynasty. Perhaps, (Cornwall.)

Perhaps a city with a more pious leader takes down the symbols of the previous regime, and can cause upset while moving towards zeal.
Slow steps, to Presbytarian Pocalypse.

The map will show where the nukes hit, and the levels will reflect this; the cities that weren't hit aren't necessarily safe, though.
The geological and tectonic and isolated years have weathered even the most prepared of settlements.






(PERSEUS)
Droids are temperamental; they see equipment models, dates, not insignia or emblems.
They scan quantities and blueprints and classifications, not markings or distinguishing features.
As such, humans who attack get all humans marked, as hostile, as the parameters change.

"This area is set for reclamation. Please, evacuate your positions or face serious biologically devastating blasts."
A horde of electronic horror approaching, an AI declaring itself sovereign and expanding to 'reclaim' the earth and recycle it anew, obliterating and smelting resources with prefabrication design and ingenius shortcuts to achieving artificial intelligence; 

"a machine making machines makes machines like a machine."



"A grey that is endlessly close to black." Within Cells interlinked moment.
Eyes expand when robots hear the activation phrase or some shit kinda moment.
The synthetic humans rebel and somehow manage to form a friendship with the Trade Unionists.








Zeal.
(or some shit)
Proselyte is a rank given to those who are strangers to the overzealous regions. They are treated like dirt until they earn their place. Harsh quests, xenophobia, and a lot of righteous rhetoric.
"You, Proselyte, of what birth are you?"
"C-Cumryc, your benevolence."
"And now you've joined our sect, and forsaken your old life?"
"Yes." he said, managing to avoid a stutter but still appearing meek before the tone of the righteous.
"God-Fearing?"
"The wrath of hellfire showed me the path to true salvation."

The Heirophant is the name given to arbiters of a Newer order, binding faith and state once again, in (Scotland)

Zealous cultists whose beliefs can be surmised as the personification of a newer testament of the world. They believe the Bombs mark the end of the last testament of the world, and that these times have been foretold. The leader of the church uses leftover drugs in a church and gives visions of what is to come. 
[The scary thing is, this broken clock is right more than twice a day?]

A priest is shown as a character in Brink.
No, Nathaniel, no, you aren't a prophet, you're just delusional. However eventually you will inspire so much more, and become beholden as a prophet and a saint.






(KATTERIN AND WOMEN & MAGIC & KNOWLEDGE)



"Ambition, at the cost of our children" Rhaenys jestured.
She tried to avoid the coming storm.

If there are any important MOTHERS in the story later, to be built upon, they will need to weigh up ambition and their family's safety.
Powerful female politicians, advancing their claims on legitimacy and power in districts stuck in conflict, finding security in founding, effectively, houses.
Jarls need to thread back in, perhaps in Scotland these are female Jarls with the wisdom and cunning of the Targaryan-Hightower showdown.

"Death has knocked on my door more times than I care to count."
In a moment of a character being prepared for burial, a mother says this.
She's lost all her children, started a new family, and then seen them wither.
She has had two husbands, one before, one after the apocalypse, through a marriage that started off kind of off, because the bombs fell, and then she grew to love this life too, somehow, with family by her side despite death all around, a bleak sun emerges.
Her mother sheltered her from the previous apocalypse, they got to the country, but she died alongside her husband after the riots started and the hunger.
Katterin, Mid-Conversation, interrupted by the (player character) walking in and announcing, either sarcastically or devotedly, depending on ones relationship to Katterin, they have completed a task, even if only partially, and struggling to do so.
She asks him after a start: "To what extent are you going to help us? What lengths are you prepared to go to, may I ask?" With an eyeglare upwards from the table they had gathered round while you remained entranced in her words as she turned to lean down.
(Somewhat flirtatious response) or (All the way) or (I expect better/I'm out/Hurt characters feelings choice)

(Flirtatious)
If you really mean that, I reckon we stand a chance, side by side 
(Uttered slowly based on character expectation of you; multiple takes of same line with a different recording every time, she is a main character, need depth in interactability and replays depending on how you think of this character)

Explanation for (why she tests loyalty), upon you asking her later on in side dialogue
She hints that she has a long and varied past with several factions, given her age you reckon she has lived a long life in the ruins of the Old World before readjusting to the isle's New Order of things.
She leaves out that she has used several people to her advantage to get where she needed to be after an event early in her life, which she refuses to tell anybody the truth about, she changes the story anytime any different character asks her about it. 
*Idea* If you find a document in the game which discovers ID or psychological background writeups in a super outpost/base/research facility or officers academy or something, Katterin has a writeup on her backstory, and the TRUE story is written in that. She was tormented after the slow loss of everyone she knew, besides a man that had... questionable ideals, swept her along, and claimed people, snatched, used for nasty things.
These men were rounded up and shot once they were found, and Katterin changed her name, and vowed to never go near her old life again. She evaded her past for all this time, with the case being declared solved given the timeplace it took place in; priorities were Order, not Justice.


(All the Way) 
(Dialogue is meant to allure the player to want to work with them.) Excellent. Our revelation is at hand, we need only (do x y z)
Afterwards, she asks if there's anything we need. She will in time give us rewards for good work, adding story gear that'll help us, as the campaign gives exotics, and harder sections of the game / other gamemodes? activities? deal good loot also.

(I'm out/Feelings hurt) Negative points to relationship, a light scold in an underlying displeasure of a stern gaze, told to come back later, and she says she'll be waiting as you leave, with a start of a smile as she looks down at the door as you turn. She smiles as you nod and turn, then hardcut out the conversation, out the door.
(with your AI companion asking you how you feel about this when you're in the books, when this same situation happens in the books.)"

(Katterin getting used to you being friends with a character she doesn't like)
"...It's not just that, it's you two; you're at eachother like a sighthound to a fox."
"I can assure you, that won't happen... bla ba bla."
"..And, as for your metaphor, let's just say she fits the... doggish description."
(Vulgar descriptions of others who have chosen not to work with her made into jokes is Katterin all over.)


Katterin remembers an experience of falling in a void in her past actions, a mission beyond the horizon of what can be considered normal, she fell through a void using debris to bounce between if she hoped to transcend through an expanse of bitter cold and desolation all around. Little light, just a vacuum of distant echoes, sound, and thin air, but vision stretched forever into darkness. Leaping, falling, onto platforms, some of which resembled memory fragments. Past AND future. She gazed into oblivion, and it gazed into her. (Why... bla bla bla later on.)
Do I have one half of the game be a male character then have side-segments playing as Katterin ?

[Girl interrupted misc notes for storytelling of Oh To Be A Woman]


Phone call interrupted by adjacent dialogue. Who is speaking on the phone to the lassie? Whats the argument she can't hear while smoking and pondring the day?
They want something, something she has, something she knows they want, information? Rations? Supplies? Word of mouth of the news?
They see an old friend in the hospital, and get talking through the night in person. Phonecall leading to in person segue through environmental storytelling.
Characters pretending to be asleep.
Why do people choose to interact in the quiet and the fray?
Put on groooovy music one time for your characters.

Night time chats with confidénts interrupted by incoming news and perhaps a trip to the wilderness resulted in a crone getting injured.
 A psychological war hospital element ensues as a character deals with trauma and the character looks on, in horror, at seeing the affects of radioactive warfare, modern warfare, in the homestead, as well as on the battlefield.

"If talking did shit we'd be out of here by now."

Endless cycles of repetition of observing horror only distracts you from pursuing onwards. The heroine needs to be driven, and have a voice of authority about her to point her in the right direction, and to point others, to lead them, as Cortana does.

Guitar chats by the fire after bowling (Look at your notepad please I've been wanting you to mention you to do that in your notes, you've got .txt notepads and a real one, hehehehe.

Only when a shitstorm has been kicked up do we see the higher ups. Reserved, cigarette in hand, pen in the other. Those in power write, knowledge is their weapon. Time is precious. The high crones of the order intervened as something got out of control, a protest of the young heroine, 

Courses of action, sane and insane, right and wrong, are presented as choices by the maiden, telling the player of the path they must choose in hinted words and with tv screens and radios before; the right choices are made obvious if you LISTEN AND SEE?
What shores are these, on what worlds, in what time, in what circumstance.
The choices of your life are written in your actions, the player is given these parting words as they sally up for a side mission before the shit hits in a nearby area.


Wardship failing in her exams. Struggling exams and confusion as to what to do as she learns.
Upon leaving, upon deployment, upon wherever follows this inquisitve school, 
The feisty one of the crones gets into a kerfuffle at a meetup, steals someones wallet or electronics to get out of a nick, and we can segue into another character for another book to jump out of sequence.


The lass is a Wolf surrounded by cats, she's noble and headstrong surrounded by a cunning discerning bullying knife of a cat piercing into every action she makes with observation, flirtery, inquiry..
One need only stand up, but at the right moment, to defend oneself and ones values once a threshhold has been reached of dancing around the subject of who is going to take control of the power dynamic of the internal group. Someone with the mind of a hunter, sharp, thinking of weakpoints, weapons, or the inquisitive, someone thinking of the rationale of everything.

Two different outlooks, both competing.

Think of the role of the cat in Girl interrupted and Alien
it's there as a reminder of hostility, of coming tension.
the cat is atuned to threats, a catfight ensuing is a key motif.


The cat eventually gets a hold of the womans journals, exposing her inner thoughts, and notes on a certain figure like Tig or something, embarrassing inner thoughts the character would never want outed, in trial, later, with acerbic precision. She'd been being measured by the Cat all along and seeing if she was friend or enemy and decided to act first.


The Cat acts out, shining a light onto the character, exposing their weakness, hesitancy, in a jury of peers on their last night. An argument to let hellfire loose of the measured thinking response versus the pragmatic cunning approach to situations, like pub brawls, relationship problems, success and failure in a state institution of servitude.

One could retort to the cat, but they always have another snide remark. Think Eoghan and Ted and Thomas when we got down to rants. A cylindrical cycle of retorts and remarks against the other, until the cycle breaks down. 

A broken soldier scratches his head with the tip of a magazine as silence echoes after the tensions have calmed.

One gets the sense that this spat that's unfurled will in time come to pass if both sides see sense and stop fighting amongst eachother in search of higher truth, instead of flirting with establishing power dynamics. 

I believe in: "What do these buttons do? What would happen if x interacted with y" 

The adversary to that is "TOo many buttons begging to be pressed."

The Zealous prophet grows out of this person, from jaded and in search of a greater mystery, to a grown woman. Think, Yennefer, Lady Jessica, Lady MacBeth, Queen Calanthe, Queen Elizabeth?
This lassie is fucking ex royalty i stg
Top Brass.
Classy lady.

Also draw from english history more as well you prick get some royals thrown in there too.


[Nobody likes a Bunny]

A third party interjects;
"Oi, I might not know everything, but I know all about you. You've been sleeping with everyone you've so much as winked at here, and stringing along the rest of us!"

"Him there, her with the ponytail, the ginger one there, frigging all of them!"

With her, it became instinctual to bury what you wanted to say behind any statement, hoping that by doing so, you could portend happiness in the wake of the gap she left in you when she'd throw you out, only to always, always, come back.

The bloke she'd been shagging behind my back waltzed in, it felt like his very presence was a smug grin perfectly concocted for me to wipe off his scrawny fucking face.
The world collapsed around me and him as he walked past. I felt my fist strike his cheek before I'd even completed processing how he made me feel by merely walking past me, after all he'd done.

I told her "We're going upstairs." Bewildered, and hesitant, she fumbled herself upward and in my direction, clearly replaying what had happened and discerning how at all to proceed, if at all.
We 

"What do I have to do to convince you I'm on your fucking side?"






WITCHES

I dream of voices talking in verse, one of whom deciding when next to meet. 
Radiaton, Plague, or Rain?
They psionically agree on the determines of things. 

"Where the place?
Upon the moor.
When the Fires begin to spread, when the battle turns to dread, 
then we shall, us three appear,
There, we ingratiate [character name], my dears."

"When we next, in Raven Clad, upon the moor begin to sit.
Stand ye not for whats to come, once the war's once more begun."












































(Deep History)



3.5 Billion Years ago, life was born.
Less than a Billion Years into the existence of our world, Biological life began to emerge, from "LUCA - Last Universal Common Ancestor"

What is forgotten is the life before it; for if it is a miracle that life was born once on this world, then surely for it to exist twice is a blessing too.
A biochemistry utterly different from the carbon-based life of today; the first life was living chemistry in the pourous rock of an ancient lake at the oldest spot of significance in the world, long since eroded over by continents and time.
It comes back, haunts humanity, using the power of living chemistry to erode humanity with a touch-sensitive rot plague like the Flood that melts carbon based life upon contamination.
These people become toxic and their skin can malform and rot with metallic scabs that peel off and unnatural fluids of toxins festering in cysts in skin and bone.

The Old Gods have their living chemical plague, utilising a form of lead/tin? posioning.
"Plumbarius" "Stannum"
ALSO make note, as Huxley did, of the "ingenious" means of war of a generation gone.

Heiðinnlög - The Heathen Law

Nobody knows when the Hans first came to the island. Heiðinnlög (of tributary jarl german vikings) was then the centre of conquest for much of the shores of the continent, raiding the civilised world, which ended at the (get the map done, you know where this should be really mentally.)
 and adapting its army to expand into yet uncivilised territories.

The Archipelago, at this time, was but a backwater of clans and company-unions, oathtakers all, squabbling over old rivalries and shared borders, minor glories and temporary powers. The balance was shifted when the invaders came.

Nobody rightly knows what drove the Heiðinnlög (West or East from Europe?), much is forgotten from our ancient histories, beyond the broad facts. The culture lingers where the history allows it to. Perhaps these expeditionary raider-kings set out to escape what was to come, given the gift of foresight, or perhaps they just wished to risk all for the chance to wear a crown, a ringlet, to get a larger holding.
(Midlands-SouthWest-Wales) became vassalised, North-Scotland-Ireland raided and major cities were established to expand further inland, but it was not to last for more than 25 years. The Hans presence established some political borders, but what was to follow ensured a power imbalance in the islands to last for its entire union.

If the Hans ever seeked to look back Home, once in (England,) they could no longer. By the time they had established a new Kingdom to subjugate, the Hordes arrived from the East, and with them, a plague that struck the kingdoms the Old Army could muster, as well as eventually (England-Wales.) This plague stretched to even the Archipelago for a short duration, though only a few centres were affected, due to locality to wounded, and the strict loyalty to jarls that these Hans posessed.

To look (West or East from Europe?), was for many, to look at a sickness upon the Northern Empire of Heiðinnlög. To look (East or West from Europe?) as (The Conqueror) did, was to look for fertile lands, and a kingdom, easy enough to grab, if one only had the time to prepare.
Within three years the (Normanised) had mustered strength and bannermen seize and redistribute (England), and leave the Hans only Scotland-Ireland to plunder. This, too, was not to last. 

A runaway kingdom had converted religions, and (Normanised) in (Francia-Normandie) and claimed the English crown for itself, claiming to be the heirs of the legitimate rulers of the last kings of (the old celtic kingdom) through a tapestry. Their Kingdom had claimed the first conquered island in England, yet the Island was removed enough from the Coast to not be considered in the Heiðinnlög proper but a Vassal state. This was a get-out clause for the realm,
In truth, they had been deligitimised through a succession crisis; the heir was a lady, and ladies were not allowed to hold lands unmarried.

The family wound up in Francie, and upon marrying nobility, (with emphasised beauty and betrothal and fairytale marriage) inherited a large part of France. (This heir was able to manage to bribe her way into large holdings for her future heirs. Remember this. The gift of the Cat.)
This crown, however, had converted to the new religion, which, in fairness, was spreading to the Hans, too, but was renounced by any independent (celtic). The Crown's new religious attitude was welcomed by the Francs in exchange for, upon leaving Francia, they renounce claims to all but a treaty port for the maintenance of goods exchange, and to continue moving its goods out of the land they would cede should they win.Not tributary, but aligned in goods exchange, and intertest for the (Francs) to wrest control of the Archipelago, and convert the islands through a true new line of succession.
(Francify)


It was later the (Unionists) arose. These people persecuted the (North-Scotland) as kingdoms would become independent a generation later, given the armistice of the tribes and the union of the celtic tribes behind a prophet king, sent to rout the invaders and secure the long sea. (the descendent is actually a main character wowie woah woah cool beans). 
She's Welsh-Midlands, not purely celtic anymore, but the blood is with her still. A queen of the Celts.)




Deep in the past, a series of massive storms caused a global catastrophe.
They will be linked back to the ending scenario, with the storms this time starting in what is Canada and Greenland, then spreading East, to Albrythica.
Flashes of green and red lightning noted off the [Scottish] Coast.



[Napoleonic Alt?? Modern Alt?]

Remember the holotape shyte
(Sevastapol) is a battleground worth talking about too in allegory to the past.
We'll do a history segment on Sevastapol, failures in command, supply shortages, and the horrors of war. "Nearing every battle from the time of the battles of Balaclava and the Light Brigade and Battle of Inkerman, 1/3rd of combatants on all sides were lost."
"The Light Brigade lost half of its horses"

( (UK-Japan) alliance is still fondly remembered in alt-history. (UK) leads the vanguard alongside (Euro) (Indian) (Oceanian) (East Asian Tiger) allies against China whom had ensued in a policy of revanchist expansion after the defeat by the Europeans

"Three commanding officers, two who die within seconds of eachother, a third then breaks down and begins trying to organise a desperate defence. Once the first wave comes over, he is gunned down, sword/revolver and message/radio in hand." Future war parallel, 


Supply shortages, frozen winters. The Spring Mud season consumes wounded who take to drinking puddles out of thirst while waiting in overflowing medical centres.


Bitter cold.
Nothing like what would become in the Nuclear Winter though.
Winter clothing supply ships were sunk.
King of Sardinia bolsters the ranks.

The war caused upheaval at home, aNorth-South divide, as well as a City/Rural gap. 
In Europe, Socialism is born in Ruralism and Southern Delight, and in Northern Coal and Iron mines and the birth of an industrial Paris and Amiens. (alt history). Called the Rossignol (new faction to expand on and create mythos for)
in the rurals, and the Commune, and later the Syndicalists (Britain)





WereWarriors

In the days of nordic conqueror times, teenagers became Were, and Warrior, and Wolf, of warrior stock and fit for a world of blood and raid.
The west (Fake Scotland and Fake Northern Ireland and Fake Northumbria) got the worst of it..
The East (Fake London, Fake South, Fake Cornwall, Fake trade link to the American Colonies)
Our islands are geographically close enough to see the evidence of a history of nordic conquest in its old world archaeology.
Can make sights of nature and landmarks like Lindisfarne or some shit.
An old Abbey people take shelter in, with signs saying what it used to be, with one man pleading people not to break them down for firewood.
He buys an armed guard after they see vandals shooting local wildlife for food.
Still, more people come in every day.
This place is shielded from the radiation, the mountain passes seperate the air, keep it out of our winds direct path usually. An old Abbey sheltered from the harshness of modern life. Privately owned paradise.





Project: Think Like a Clone
Clone Wars, best armies.
Need to make batallions that stand out, right? So, Caracal and Wolfhound divisions and shit like that were cool names.
And also, 
Bad Batch; a gang of former soldiers sticking together having been confronted with a choice,
and there can also be a squadmate they fell out with, like Crosshair, who made the other choice.

And Crosshair becomes the Soldier and has had to live seperate with his own means of life?
Or one of the others.
They're OLD by the time the game comes around, but still experienced in strategy; one of them on the team on comms is good battlefield tips.
Techy, Heavy, Melee/SD-CQB Commando, they have the training for it, with specialisations from each of them in that role, so for your playstyle to be tailored, for example, or for the book to highlight one of their own points of view.

Echo; The Clone who was stolen by the enemy for Strategic Analysis? 
Brilliant.
The algorithm will steal a character of importance who the gang will know thereafter and have a bond with them for the rest of the story; pick. 
The PREQUEL should establish Echo in the past war; and then this war, so as to make his story all the more drawn out, and all the more impactful, for a Soldier's Death.

"They'll definetly notice when he doesn't report in."
No kills, and no knockouts, equals the perfect getaway.
Though to make the entire game this way would be fuuuucking hard. Only for Open World shit, but when you enter missions na. Go Loud.

Along the way they meet someone from the other side of the old war.
"Not seperatist, serennian" they say in bad batch so uhhhhhhhh think of sides of an other war

Sticking a grenade with an enemy, and it going inside a (Droideka's) shield, causes them to explode.
Achievement.
The enemy will sometimes go "Get it off me!"
but it will die anyway all the time when you do this.











"Part of me gives into the nihilism of it all. That the world is lost, for good, and we are the wittling down of mankind's empire. We are the twilight. But part of me keeps pushing. Has, to keep pushing. I wish I could say I'm making a difference, but I'm not so sure. I'm but one man. Banditry, mutants, deadly radiation, and psionic anomalies, and portalling.."



A parent's rejection of a flawed child; 
"You are no son of mine." is built up to, with slaps and then a belt, after a really bad day in the post-apocalypse.
This child is meek now, but another who goes through the same thing, comes out a hardass, who eventually bonds with them, though neither of them actually talk about their childhoods to eachother, they both reflect it.







"Metropolitan Police", or "MPs"
heavily militarised authoritarian police-force, stating shit like they're for "keeping the peace" but are essentially a cartel of violence and repression on the lower classes. Tattoos and slogans for "can't beat the Blues." and shit like that. Punisher logo level cringe. 
A speech from a Socialist stating they fit the definition of a gang; An association of individuals, in which members adopt features to collectively identify with a group identity. A common name, nicknames or, in this case, callsigns. identification markings, symbology, tattoos. You get the idea.
They Sponsor fear and use intimidation tactics to achieve their ends, cause no matter how much they talk up "keeping the peace," you don't need to bring a battering engine, with a riot shield slapped on the front of it, to stop criminals. A tool like that's only purpose, is to stop /us/. Pushing paupers and vagrants out the way, with fully automatics, power-tripping. You've seen it. They aren't serving anyone anymore but themselves."

"Disperse!"

"Protect and Serve!"

"






(BRINK & BLEAK SUN)

In the Brink prequel, there's a space sky tether, to begin subsidised space travel to conquer nearby worlds with veritable deposits of minerals. This harmed the atmosphere greatly with the increase in Space Travel, and exacerbated the energy crisis in regions not suited for geothermal transportation.
Some nations used slingshot systems, and railcannon transports to launch a craft at escape velocity, and then it would slow itself using a self-rotating capsule. The technology was evidently more advanced than even our world, so the fall was even greater, the light lost was truly golden. Utopia and democratic stability under this island's reign, then a backfire, due to whatever.
The politics of that world need fully ruling out. Do this in a seperate document, and you need to LINK to it.

With a white flash, the bombs incinerated the cities, and wiped out the electronics of all but the most isolated areas. The National Grid died, and so began the subdivision of energy as an economy of regions (and the seperatism beginning)




Refugees from the bombs.
For three days I fought my way through the crowds exiting the city. The roads were packed with refugees, carting along whatever provisions they had afforded themselves. The roads hadn't descended into banditry at such a time, for the grief and pain essentially deprived many of the ability to do more than crawl away from everything they had ever known.
All that was of value to me at that time was getting to my home. 


Welcome to the start of the post-Anthropocene.

We got welded in today. The upper district finally closed off the final corridors and halls behind new reinforcements, and welded the doors shut.


(Smeagól 2.0)

A creature, half human, half ghoulish (don't say ghoul though because Fallout)
Left to lose its mind like Smeagól and Gollum and treasure but one thing, tinned food. Rice pudding is its favourite. It has a strange way of speaking, like Smeagól and Gollum, having been alone for an unusually long time, alive for so long when it should have rotted like every other irradiated person who wasn't tinkered with.
This creature has half its face burned, (it turns to speak with one side of its face, the other is another voice, much more shrewd?)
The only way it atones itself is with either rice pudding, or talking to itself to vent its anger and frustration and delve further into its own madness.
His personality, upon further reflection, appears to be split in two; it has adopted half the personality of its now long-dead companion who it lost in the fire, and was unable to save. Being alone for so long, with mind rot, the memory of his companion dying and the trauma of it has fused into an alternate side to it. The burnt side is as malicious as its companion was, a right nasty old fucker, with it being kind before the war, and guilt-ridden, and ever-so-fearful. It needs the burnt personality to endure the misery that life is when the normal personality takes over.
Its name..?



Red Zone - Global Economic Progress has halted; only the Archipelago remains! Since primitive communications were re-established with some closer nation-states, whom are in a comparable position to ourselves, the ability to trade/communicate on the Blue Highway has been frought with danger.

~Storms
~Rogue Submarine AI Packs
~Monsters
~And At some point a fuck off Navy

The ability to once again establish a maritime stronghold and not rely solely on land, and for the ultra-rich, air, is a priority for the government.



(Tig's family backstory)

A family barely making ends meet, picturesque to represent the working classes.

Pack of scrotes.
A Pack.
They fend for eachother but fight amongst themselves.

A note on the fridge asking who ate all the bread.
Five replies arguing in different handwriting.

Washing line of clothes, each child with their own signature colour, or fabric, or item.
One kid wears a poncho.
Always.
Never takes it off.
A little scrote of a kid.

Another, a parka, and over that his rig.
Tig the Twig.

A kid throwing pieces of peeling wallpaper off, tearing it into balls, and throwing it into the mouth of a drunkard while they're sat in a house with the wind rattling.
A conversation [about something prior] erupts. They whisper quietly as to not wake the drunkard, but the kid continues throwing scant wallpaper trimmings. One hits his bellybutton.
The kid scores, waking the man up with a jolt and spilling rum onto his trousers.
The conversation concludes as the kid walks out and the drunkard begins talking to the one who prior entered to begin the conversation.

Later, the smell of rum becomes synonymous with him as someone says he stinks like a brewery.

One of the lads is mind-blind, a condition of unimagination. Their mind is blank. The rest of the kids can imagine things properly, but this lad's cognitive classes yield no results.
No mental abilities of recognition.

Right, so these lads have a gang, like This is England. But there's also the central family of 4 kids with 4 personalities.
Inquisitive Shitstirrer.
Caring older sister.
Quiet twig kid.
Little sister with a heart of gold but masochistic tendencies to outsiders. Burning other kids toys and such. Kind of scary.
Unassuming look.
Main Character family backstory.

Gingers exists, aye, but the idea that you just ginger up yourself to make them celtic is a bit far.
Describe a celtic mother figure, and say the brown eyes and jet black hair and pale skin are features of a time of old, of nature and home and harmony.
A dream in the old world book to prequel it
(I didn't know my dad, he went missing the day the bombs dropped.
My mother was 5 months pregnant. She survived, and lived to a long age. My mum kept my dad's things, including a key.)

"How did you survive the [Collapse]" 
(I had a twin sister, but she absorbed most of the radiation my Mum got. She had a degenerative illness, from birth, but my Mum was permitted shelter, due to her pregnancy, by whom I came to call my Uncles.)

His father is presumed dead, but no records exist from those times. The entire era was swept with a great dying, to the point where no records could be effectively kept. The extremely old and young, those with exposure from glaring to merely inhaled, there were too many to name.
What did remain, however, was the holotape directories. Notes, left scattered in the winds on old tapes, many eroded by the elements, sure, but many preserved, thus preserving stories from those days. Few were made in the days of roaming my mother told me about, but once those sheltered enough to weather the tide of suffering outside their doors managed to stabilise, and exist in whichever hole they happened to find, tapes began to be preserved. Whether it was from old cargo carried in bags by those that fled burning cities, or whether swept up from Libraries and film shops, from classrooms from abandoned homes, by fucking clean-up brigades. We kept what we could of life before, it helped, almost. Many were sentimental for the way things were, understandably, but just how much we tried to salvage was never enough. 



The Boys said Hughie was their "Canary," their warning bell.
For a character archetype, I shall follow this, though not with much resemblance to loveable Hughie.
Who is that person? A main character, with a moral sensibility, who keeps the others in check. They must break off after a bit, and the others go their seperate way, but without a moral compass, they get worse and worse, and lose their humanity while still trying to be the good guys.
When he (Tig?) comes back, he finds the group changed, and has to put work into his ACTIONS, and WORDS to help them reconcile with what they have done. Their actions can't be fixed, but they can still be brought around to the light. Redemption arc for the Character(s) that have gone too far in their pursuit to be the good, and ended up becoming anti-heroes just a tad tooo much.











(MAIN STORY IDEAS)
(Idea for writing the SETTING for where these characters interract:)
They are all static, with most running away from things, or striving for ideals with little actual action beyond petty missions, like STALKER jobs. 
One character, Katterin, running to the mystery, and her own arc. 
Katt is a character who is living in the Present, who joined of their own volition, eventually goes their own way, as they aren't running away together as part of a motley crew.
Tig is a character who hold high ideals but his actions feel like of little consequence to him, constantly erring between indecisiveness.
His death will split the group.




It has been 20 years since the bombs dropped; society has remained federalised and decentralised as regions focused on maintaining the status quo of devolution. Different ideologies spread out across Albion as each region contends with its own consequences of the East-West Exchange, alongside the climate and ecological concerns of the passing Nuclear Winter.

Maximism stands militant in Albion's remnants. The faction only gained from the collapse of the world, it seemed, as the chaos and bloodshed allowed their order to flourish. The only factions to gain were absolutist.
They maintained their iron hold on power as their foe was eliminated, creating a Regional Hegemon of power.

This worried the other regions, but other concerns kept them from being able to attend this... growing concern.

So many new areas of science branches opened up, and funded by the desperate remains of tycooners looking for a miracle cure, giving into preachers or just hoping for results in investmens.. (Lord Summerisle) is one of these.


The (where cornwall was (cornish) coast is home to an array of flora; the gulf climate allows for exotic plants to bloom in prior warm summers.
What is left has decayed and withered in number and vibrance, save for the areas touched by the fertility Lord Summerisle's crops yield.

Lord Summerisle's manor, looking out over the bay to (Ireland).


Fungi; The game shows a verdantly overgrown building on the outskirts which used to be a museum of types of fungi, wherein we encounter one person who has joined the colony of fungi. His body was the first to succumb here, but he is not the first, just the first we meet.(For others, turned, you must look beyond, into a nuclear pit.)
The museum includes a section that says a Fungus was used to excrete a chemical able to digest plastic, and avaricious it was in the recycling factories. It got out of hand when leaked into a landfill once, but the government simply buried it alive with a layer of concrete, yet, also, built this Museum atop it, so it can be used as both recycling centre and as a scientific research centre, but a museum on the surface, 50 miles above the remains of the Old Town, beneath, paved over during the Great War, and still standing from the Nuclear one.
 (In the business, this is what we call, foreshadowing)


This museum looks like it is still standing, and the ware-and-tear is minimal, given it can still be frequented, yet it is verdantly overgrown inside, and has nothing hostile (at first) [beyond some light puzzled to keep the player entertained.]

The museum details; the plants have no problem integrating into a symbiotic relationship, with the fungi growing, and supplying it with nutrients; carbons at first. The Fungi essentially triggered the growth of plants from the water's edge, from lilyworts and moss, towards leafed plants and trees, flowers, fruits, nuts. All thanks to the symbiosis that allowed the start of the move to land, for plants.
Without fungi, we would have no life on the surface.
The fungi cannot survive in mammalian life; our blood temperature is outside their comfort zone, and they can instead mainly infect cold-blooded animals and plants, if at all.
Bats hibernate in winter, and their body temperature drops. They become susceptible to fungal infection at this time, despite being warmblooded.

(SOME species can survive in warm-blooded animals, and can form a symbiosis with them, in my game)
Bringing a scientist along with you on this mission will reward you with an interesting dialogue option you can explore.

Prototaxites as tall as trees have overgrown in the garden, having beaten out the trees inside.
The museum explains this in the section dedicated to Prototaxites, that they lost to the arrival of insects, which could eat away, due to their being no bark.
Outside, however, they are not winning. (yet, wait for part 2)

In the expanse of death following the meteorite, the fungi helped speed up the decomposition and reclamation of flora from the brink of extinction.
Here, the fungi have gone abberant; this system located here has turned rogue, and began using their newfound symbiosis with the ants to begin to attack the forest and to establish themselves in a new cordon.

The ants are hostile to all other life beyond the fungi; the scientist pays you handsomely for a sample.

Given it's outside ofn the city, however, a nest of fire ants, the queen, and workers, all infected with fungi, have began multiplying (in the garage section, left open, and in a nearby woods?)
Corpse Flowers and Larger Ants. Fungal spread in massive gigacomplex greenhouse institutes.
Biomass. Fertilise.  Consume. Conservate/Expand. Biomass. Fertilise. 
Burrow.
Burrow.
Burrow.
Ants digest the fungus; this gives them toxic effects.
Slugs that frequent the ground near these trees leave a trail of resin behind them.
Spiderweb fungi Poison shit. (Not void here)
Poison Arrow Tree Sap bioaugmentation.
At night, the fungi feeding on the poison resin resonates as two rival chemical compounds interact and form artificial bioluminescence.
The light generated pulses brightly atop the ants and their fungus farm.
A heart of warmth that seeps into the ants' nests
The digestion of tree matter by fungus feeds nutrients, and at night, allows for bioluminescence, as the toxic resin and the fungus causes select conifers and ferns and treestumps to be embewed with the fungi and to glow as brightly as them, while others yet still are harvested around these; no aspen, no oak, just carboniferous era.
(Later)
(The ants in the next game show they have won, establishing bracket fungi, and then the prototaxites.
The ants have learned how to farm plant forests into fungi forests. Spores and Spores and Spores emitted when the wind breaks through the nest; the region ovverun with fungus in conservation has a new pressurised air corridor to break through and infect the rest of the ecosystem; a route of heavy spore growth, pressurised, contained, feeding on vulnerable plants. )

Tree species that aren't susceptible to (new) mutations of fungus overpowering them. The ants attack them. It has no counter-measure and has been out-evolved, the ants burrow away in the woods, and build a nest catacombs stretching for miles underground.
The fungus grows at a rate never before seen, the ants are merely caretakers, trimming and growing the land around; it spreads to the surrounding forest, avoiding conifers and pine, infiltrating ferns and moss, killing grass and oak and aspen and birch, with ants gnawing some down that the fungus cannot kill off.

An outbreak! People as cold as the dead, then turning dead, and then decomposing at unnatural rates!
These people carry the spores that will infect the first humans!
They come back from the expedition to reclaim this part of town, in body bags, killed by ants.






Tribalised people out in the wilds will salvage broken guns and create "Handgonnes."
https://youtu.be/8drmKDUwBvU
Reasonably high damage, easy maintenance, but simple, one shot, unrifled slug.
So not a single shotgun, a single rifle.
A team of these does well good in a cutscene; line infantry used in the woods like Arwemen of old.
Then they can switch to bows, or have supporting bowmen with fire.

Travellers found encroached by roots of forests, consumed amidst the reclamation of nature on battlefields. Loot deteriorates overtime and bodies grow into mushroom piles, vines, etc in areas where battles happened long ago in the story, for later arcs, in later years.


Before the game, a heist was pulled, much like many others, to reclaim and salvage artefacts from the dark zones. Many close friends of the characters are MIA, presumed dead, and one made it out, with the rare loot, but was left behind. Are they now hostile? Do they feel betrayed? What are they now burdened with? The curse of knowledge? An affliction and a burning hatred to boot with it, to arc around and control when this character dies? Like a plague, eating away at them, piece by piece. Marked by technology, radiation, something. They'll turn, and need to be put down, or can die having been pursuaded to be good at least one more time.
How they survived in the world in the Dark Zone with looted relics and a time limit on their life is where their hostility comes from; they took any means to survive out there, constantly searching for scant chances (to reunite with someone, or do something)

Characters reuniting.
"I've been out of your life for a decade; you NEVER left mine. I see your face plastered across half the continent, every time I move.
 I overhear stories when I'm out for a drink trying to forget you. I. Can't. Outrun. You. And now, you're here, on my door, asking for more from me? Get to fuck."
Old Friend Pub Option: The Player fucked this guy over, either lied to him about a quest objective a while ago, 
The Pub belongs to an old friend, or family?
Maybe you can do this all over, with different businesses, get houses or flats nearby, that charge rent, obviously, but ones EARNED are ones you don't have to pay for, (as given by Land Redistribution Protocol of the State, one of the enshrining protocols put into place by the government as the world went under.)







Descent.
"Beginning descent in fourty seconds. Stand-by." The last fleks of cold sunlight strike his face, doing little to absolve the fret in his mind. He knows, however, that this is at least more comforting than what lies below.

Descending down a lift shaft with one voice to keep him company before the quiet depths beneath the facility.
"We'll stay with you for a... *static* -e can."

"I'm seeing some electromagnetic anomalies in the instruments, could you, uh, give them a whack?"
Such a sophisticated method of fixing the scanner seemed to work, briefly, as the display on the motion tracker fizzes to life, showing no readings but yourself as his hand passes in front of the device. He holsters the tracker, hand shaking as he fumbles to press it into the pocket.

"Approaching the insertion floor." 

"Keep an eye out for radiation pockets, sparks, flames, anything of the sort. You should be alone down there, so noth-"
The comms die out once more, with no sign of them fluttering back to life. 

The crackle of the old comms does nothing to lift the unease as the lift slows to a crawl, and the rusted gates open. He decides to turn the radio down, as the soft crackle begins to grind on his subconscious.

A cracked screen above the door flutters to life; "Disembark," it reads, the lamp behind the sign flickering between dim and slightly brighter, before the screen gives up entirely. A densely littered corridor lies just beyond the doorway, and with a few small steps out of the lift, the swathes of dark growing closer with every step, [protagonist] sighs a solitary whimper. His headlamp only lights but a few feet ahead of him.


When you travel to the Isles of (Ireland), you find it ravaged by conflict as the resource has all but vanished from everyday use, people burn wood and have cleared many once safe sites outside the walls in search of timber.
The player should be easily able to distinguish safe areas from overgrown, verdant wilderness.
Many don't come back from these cuttings.

There is mass protest against the acquisition of peat for sale abroad from the trade distribution wing of the (Market-Liberal Dystopia in FakeEdinburgh, the new Capitol seen as London did not survive.)
Peat is a poor person's fuelsource of this world, and the richest 'nation' still holds the might of an endentured (Ireland) for the sole excuse of mining resouirces. This creates, and created, mass tension in the post-nuclear world.

(The Rich take the good stuff, the Irish get scraps.)
It has been rendered more useful due to decades of adaptation to the 'readily available' fuelsource for all.


A man is being held hostage.
The person holding him is doing so to prove that they waste nothing but time holding them captive, but believing they can turn them to divulge information if they cause enough chaos before they give them the [plot device, choose]
And so, they cause chaos, surgically, randomly, seemingly unconnectedly unless [x] puts it together.
However, information on bodies reveals what this badguy is after in fragments.
What do they want?
And what is driving this man held hostage to keep his mouth shut about this secrets devastating power?

Football hooligans are the gangs; cities trace their mobs from footy roots.

A squad in the field, the commander wounded, and his men turning against him the worse his condition gets; protagonist on the fence; some of the team leave in the cover of night; distress.

A team is moving a valuable item from an anomalous city, hit by a bomb. The target is locked up tight, the passengers don't even know whats on it when interrogated, as revealed by dialogue, or audiologs when taken hostage.
The package is compromised.
The team sent to extract the package from the bandits who raided the convoy, are told to evacuate IMMEDIATELY after confirming the box was just opened in their skrim, then... it emerges.





We were sent into that desecrated tomb, they welded the doors behind us, promising us freedom and riches and a bottle of pre-war vodka if we returned as comrade heroes.
We didn't feel like heroes.
The only thing motivating us was the sentence, and the strict speech of 'generational duty' that our people must bare, as consequence for the consumption of the old world.
They say our blood is shed every generation, in war, civil upheaval, or now, in the new dark age. The sound of this welding is familiar to most of us, as a sound of the walls being repaired, the sound of steady progress in building back the settlements and reclaiming what we thought lost in pale Spring. T

he torch hisses comes to a stop, and the afterglow of the door's heat recedes from our side.
The last warmth of the fire from those on the other side bid us farewell, and we were left in the near pitch black with the torches shone in our face by the comrade commissars in charge of making us work in these pits.

They hated being down here as much as us, but they had to ensure we toiled till the end.
They chose the meanest fuckers possible for these kinds of jobs. Real walking propagandists, naive, green, wishful, whatever.
They come back scarred, if at all, but still, they send fresh units and promote the survivors to less hostile postings.
They bark orders as we shuffle down the line and collect our equipment, the lights flickering on ahead of us down this dimly lit tunnel, sunken wood propping up the concrete, now faultering, like the legacy of this once bountiful place.
We walked down the tunnel to Old Town, to the areas hit more severely, and not protected in these underground transit tunnels.)

We trudged on, work detail boots still sore from the new issue. 


One of the only perks of these jobs is you find out where the uh.. 'hard earned taxpayer money' goes to. Penthouse tax, water tax, green tax, state tax, offical-non-official 'patronages' to local city officials and comrade gangsters alike.. It all ends up somewhere. 

For us, it was in the stun baton pressed against the backs of the people at the furthest sides of our detatchment, trudging in steady successive lines of twenty, four rows aside, flanked by the crates of loot from landlords. The state always reclaimed on property, deemed in vital need of redistribution, but still, it laid collected by them, and ready for processing, by them. 
Collected nonetoodissimilar from us, the masses, to be spent like the landlords were, in provocatory hearings of guilt as to whom is to blame among us for the sins of the old world, the callous greed that our socialist forebears warned of before the revolution. 


The other side awaited us in its full stench.
Just like I remember, burnt rubber.
I haven't smelt air this thick in years.
Now on the other side of the walls, we were to collect supplies, and then, once returned, if at all, we were to wait down the railtracks while the provisional defences towards its direction were constructed.
Failing that, we were to ditch our loot and head back to this door, and the reassignment that would follow.

The gag of the air grew stronger as we got to the other end of the tunnel, the echoing sound of thunder growing more in sync as we trudged to its downward end. Into the light of a half-moon, smudged with clouds behind the haze of the old skyline, coming into view.


Eventually we were told to go topside.
Cleared to go off to our own lands, our work detail done, we were told, be free, live on the vast swaths of reclaimed land.
[lie, he murdered his CO and ran into the woods of a neighbouring region, lying criminal, easy to see through when you know this character, shot dead with a SuperMac 10mm 
]


Bugs.
We busted a nest of them, that was our task.
I've seen these fuckers in their true form now, not just from tall tales in whispered radiator side chats.



I saw some of the previous wave, the group two sections afront of us while we set off down out out the meat grinder. They weren't the same after a few hours. Once they'd been effectively cocooned by these monstrous hive, encapsulated..
I saw the workers and nurses do something with royal jelly routines while we examined the remains of one of my friends.

One who survived the routine, only to die later, told me that the organism in the mutated larvae feeds into queen consciousness, and he communed with her while trapped in that state. His skin decays with a rot like hexagons, pulsing with arduous rhythm in harmonic frequencies atuned to the low-high hum of four winged insectoid monstrosities.

then the larvae grow in place of the decaying memory..
The old stories of these old [celt] monstors stealing your soul when they snatch you is true in a sense now. The old stories come true with biohorrors of folklore legend coming in the fires of a green and dangerous new world.
Brave one must be in this new world


.
.
Made camp in a verdant regrowth of an Aspen forest reclaiming an old hamlet along the motorway lines, its doors boarded up and barked down with collapsed trees and the remnants of long since unlearned happenings. Remains of campfires long burnt along this path, cleared buslanes and footpaths, mass burials show this way had at least been tended to in some respects, even if only in haste, when things first went tits up on the surface.
Now, all we see instead of the near eternal stark gray of them days, is the green left in its wake. Pale green. Desaturated, as if the very earth is deprived of its thirst for life having suffered a long and sickening illness.

Aspen growth has been marketted during our absence from the maintenance of our sovereign land. Paths no longer tread become sealed off by changing natures, and the things that dwell within ruins and dark zones, well, that's not something I want to go near. Not after hearing those.. fucking sounds the other night.

Radios been getting sketchier with channels further out from more established territory. These channels free from state approval, pirate radio broadcasts and comm chatter, they're a way for us out here in these wilds to talk to one another, communicate, text-to-text or voice-to voice. Computer tech helps us, proprietary and clunky as typing commands onto a keypad for /whisper can be every time you wish to communicate on an open forum, on open frequencies.

This new style of PDA tech really is clunky. Everything's /all for some people who really dunno how to use it. 
(How the game has All Chat for NPCs traders local people and alerts for in game shit like Stalker does or Fallout is supposed to)


Got a taste of real-deal salmon again, fucking scranned it. Hunter bloke said it was a sign of a bountiful Early Spring, to catch one so young. Dried and flaky, just like I remember it in them ways, but bit strange seeing the uh.. new flavours.
The smoking of it got most of the weird taste out, and the third eye, conjoined to the leftside.. yeah I avoided that section. Something about it just seems to remind me of what's become.

No caviar though.
[russia something/character does something/hunterdoessomething/russiadoessomething]

Tig or someone loses an eye in exchange for knowledge, or power, or something. It's prophesised.

Don't get too big fer yer boots, "tig", but you can have my stuff when I die. Dead Man's Shoes for loot and bioaugmentations. In the game, one of these is named the Edged/Bladed Runner, but translated into japanese. 
or nickname





There will be a space segment as the weather is relayed to the ground later on when space connections have been re-established, and the miracle of national regrowth and national supremacy seems likely; of which the scientists will discuss through the radio, bla bla bla, it's a link point between stories. 

In the long-term, I need to have a fucking BIG ship. It will begin as a prototype, and will be HINTED at throughout the first game, and have a mission which will, in the third game, tie in and give you this massive ship, with a mission to do an orbital drop to contain the infestation.
Carpet bombing, 2min later, ODSTs arrive, as fired from the ship in low earth orbit, high atmosphere, in a pressurised environment, in an aircraft carrier with maglev engines, and the ability to accelerate to swift speeds, with hatched battened.
Think Bebop, but 3x the size.
A command centre for an elite crew, finally up and running.
How far you will have come from pistols with a few bullets, cheap bounties and odd jobs, and scavenging for tins of peaches when forced outside the walls.















(THE ENDTIMES)

3.5 Billion Years ago, life was born.
Less than a Billion Years into the existence of our world, Biological life began to emerge, from "LUCA - Last Universal Common Ancestor"

What is forgotten is the life before it; for if it is a miracle that life was born once on this world, 
then surely for it to exist twice is a blessing too.


A biochemistry utterly different from the carbon-based life of today; the first life was living chemistry in the pourous rock of an ancient lake at the oldest spot of significance in the world, long since eroded over by continents and time.
It comes back, haunts humanity, using the power of living chemistry to erode humanity with a touch-sensitive rot plague like the Flood that melts carbon based life upon contamination.
These people become toxic and their skin can malform and rot with metallic scabs that peel off and unnatural fluids of toxins festering in cysts in skin and bone.

The Old Gods have their living chemical plague, utilising a form of lead/tin? posioning.
"Plumbarius" "Stannum"
ALSO make note, as Huxley did, of the "ingenious" means of war of a generation gone.



Science officer clad in blue robelike official attire schemes amidst the crew of a ship- part of a political elite intermingling amidst the officer corps. Worming his way into where niggles are found in the operation; attacks by coastal raiders, old tech that needs fixing, he has a word to lend on everything. The Zealot Maybe?

The monster breaks loose; a relic of old god proportions, a beast of man and relict past.
The survivors recount their tale.

The beast stalks the countryside of the area as the team evacuated, with a heavy loss in the region as the blightlands seemed to strike back with this mythical monster unleashed into the world.


A group of our characters are stuck behind the lines of this revelation as the story of Act 1 of the MYTHICAL element of the books/shows/games is revealed, more comes with time. This is partway through the books already that this is revealed, though.



Think how Warhammer has 40k as Space Fantasy, and Fallout has Nuclear American Dream Red Scare fantasy, this is Near Future Fantasy, Modpunk, for British culture and the regions of the UK and Republic of Ireland's ancestral history too.


There's a monster, who inhabits people, they're not as they seem, they have a few off features
IN DOCTOR WHO, they SNIFF AND STARE
SNIFFING FOR HOSTS, like TIME LORDS and that

Herethey..

They want memory, knowledge, they feed on it.
They're possessed by the gods to sniff out those with something for it to gain, which we know not, at first.

(Later)
Later on, a character can explain their choice of hosts by
"Why did he want me?"
"A low level telepathic field, you were born with it"
An extra synaptic catalyst or something
the magic awakening in the population

And these people feeed on it.


Horde of zombies becomes more agressive and can run if you alert the majority
lone stragglers only become enraged in combat and can call any nearby stragglers,
continuing the melee summons the horde, who have maximum intelligence, for a brainless necro horde.

Also, their guts can be used as a scent-based camoflague.


Celtic Myths ; Kelpies, Each-Uiscge
Kelpies are water spectral horses in Celtic legend that have spectral luring powers near Lochs.
Their name means "colt"
Kelpies are the males.
They're nice at first to lure you in, then they strike.

Black dark-grey or white horse, with sticky like spiders, wet mane, always, reversed hooves?
You touch it, you get stuck, it drags you underwater.
It pretends to be your friend on land, then when you touch it, it pulls you in.

So, enemies that you help once in the wild, then you encounter it later, it pretends to be your friend, then fights you.
You CAN learn that they trick their friends later and try and kill them, backstabbing you in the story being hinted at in the in game texts

The werewolf lore of the UK is deep rooted, and this can be reflected in the mythos of the lore as we dig into the surface of the old world and its history and how its different from ours.

You first encounter some standing stones when stalking a wolf's howl. Only then can you progress the mythos story, by finding the spot where the wolf howls. The weather should change too the closer you get, always, to mist. The music needs to change when you near this region of the woods to something more primal, more animal, more antiquated, whereas at night it gets violent, and wolves stalk the grounds chasing stags.





STORMY WEATHER.
THE STORM AND THE CALM.
The storms (this time) starting in what is Canada and Greenland, then spreading East, to Albrythica.
Flashes of green and red lightning noted off the [Scottish] Coast.
Geo-magnetic interference noted by what few satellites remain.

If the Isles are still disunified, there are no measures in place.
If the isles are unified, a council will be held, to discuss what to do, what provisions to take.
The council uses scientific and ecologist assets to monitor the storms, and attempt to notice any patterns or triggers. Radio broadcasts make sure to highlight this, as a means to stop unease and the panic that is ensuing.	

No patterns are noticed out at sea or by long range patrols in the Colonial Tundra Wasteland Zone, nor out at sea.


The first areas hit by the storms as they worsen are the coasts, as the fog sweeps over.
The lightning however only strikes multiple times in the TOXIC GRAVE AREAS and/or RUNE SITES?
Before, the lightning was sporadic.
Now, it strikes these sights over, and over again.

Before, it was random, sporadic. Now, it's calculated, with increasing frequency, and energy. All compasses and electronic equipment that cannot withstand EMP blasts is going haywire.
Locals are panicked, scared.
Less experienced druids show signs of unease.
What about the greatest among the druids?


Clandestine attempts to close the portals with the most advanced electronic weaponry fail; significant damage to those forces closest to the storm, both from the toxic environment, and from a psionic force that has driven many of the men insane.

Then, the incursions worsen.

It starts in Bleak Sun;

[BLEAK SUN, TOXIC GRAVES]

 we see gravesites turn toxic; people took refuge in cemetaries as they collected the dead and buried those too sick to be moved, sometimes still alive, in order to process the stem of people coming in from the cities hit by nuclear disaster.
Toxic graves. The air above them gives anomalous readings of high chemical expungents; very unusual, and with no explanation as to why they are producing such chemicals, beyond the radiation and decomposition of so many graves' worth of people. Ecological outposts were established to monitor them, though, they don't manage to collate much beyond a few fetch quests, and maybe one or two side missions, which can foreshadow what is to come with some HIDDEN LORE. (The toxic graves that have the most anomalies are all closest to runes and ancient settlements?)
Bleak Sun's graves turn into toxic bogs overgrown in the later games. I imagine a grave in a flooded town, with a thick ambience for the player to waddle through.

OK SO PHASE 1 AND PHASE 2 OF INCURSION, THE ENEMY CHANGES, ADAPTS. THIS IS THE END, THEY INVADE, THEY ADAPT, THEY OVERCOME. THEY START WITH INFANTRY, THEN FROM THE GROUND ITSELF THE MACHINES RISE, WALKING ENGINES OF [STONE?FLESH?SOMETHING SCARY/COOOOOL] Walking automatons, relics of our inevitable surplantation by the stewards of older gods.
Humanity has failed in its stewardship, the Earth will supplant us.

"The ground gave way from under me, and I felt with horror that I had seen this awful thing before."
(Then, the machines arrive, and the lightshow gets kicking)

[Counter-attacking the Incursion.]
Artilleryman:
1) His unit was wiped out, he is a refugee, much as anyone else.

2) I remained transfixed at the frontline, overlooking the fight, while on the far bank, a fifth machine appeared, rearing to charge directly through the river and counter the crowd surging across it. The hilltop fell at once from worried discussion to the sounds of overbearing incomprehension of the situation, as the machine blasted its siren, and jumped, from the hill, onto the bridge, smashing through scores of buildings in the way as it finally landed. The Artillerymans eyes flinched when it finally landed, his lip quivering as it righted itself. It was like he expected it to sense him, from this far away, and leap atop him next. I wouldn't call that fear irrational, though. Just proactive.

The size of it was astonishing, flattening the bridge with but one dive. The machine unpacked its arsenal across the centre of the town, to the South of the river. The corpses stopped landing by the time we heard the first screams of those on the other bank. The machine, sneering downwards at those attempting to flee, had followed swiftly upon them with a levelling ghast of its incendiary rays. A cold wind swept the hill as the machine began moving in the opposite direction. We could choose to go through the town, still, sure, but that machine would hinder us at any opportunity. (Gameplay mission would be fun here if the mechanics are up for it)


3) We walked past a unit preparing defences; six mobilised gun crews ready to advance, with more moving around amongst the lines of refugees as they head off.

He is ignored by the soldiers as he walks past, still wrapped in bandages. He denotes the futility of the present situation. "As useful as an arrow barrage to strike the Lightning."

3) After clearing the convoy, they passed through to a local bridge-town. There was a heavy explosion, a new sighting nearby. The crowd began to surge when they heard the now unmistakable call of incoming erradication. Acoustical forebearance of ones imminent demise.
The Artilleryman shouts and exclaims, as the bridge is next targetted by an airborne assault of these vermin (Who are they? Robotic? Magic? Is this the BIG BIG war? at the end with the cult?)

gun-crews fire from the woods nearby, bringing fire and flame down on the hills above the town. We see the fighting machine rise above the skirmish on the outskirts, wreathed in flame, yet walking towards the flanks, and preparing firing a direct line across its immediacy to vanquish any who yet remained close.

4) (We push east, with more conversation along the way. We see families attempting to huddle together where they can, but at every junction we hear people calling out in vein for loved ones lost, never to be found again. The Military keeps things under control, but a looter is executed in the town square. The Artilleryman walks right past it while still singing a song to himself, while I slow to look at his face. He is barely older than twelve..)

5) (The machines depart units, the town is under siege after they have travelled further east to avoid this town. It seems they have a steady frontline forming, and we cannot penetrate through it with conventional weapons.)
(The units use weapons never seen before, that are attatched to their suits so they cannot be removed. Remember the PNG of the Stormtrooper armour bone shit? Use them guys if you have to.)


Some major characters sacrifice themselves in the incursions on other frontlines.
Later on, when probing and reconning the machines is shown, by other characters.


The gods can control animals affected by the Earth's Magnetic Field.

In the simple understanding of this; their influence on the Noosphere is known, though the average person in the muck doesn't know.
This should have the same feeling as the Conjunction of the Spheres. Few know of it outside of knowledge circles, except madmen who have misinterpreted it, or propagandists having bartered and extorted half-truths.
Some claim to have seen birds acting strange, maybe even hostile, depending on [xyz factor].


In later discoveries, which the player will hear through characters, such as Katterin, in circles; 
It has to do with lines, or sites, or fields. Anomalies are involved, somehow. Though, which way they guide, we are yet to find out.



An island that floats into the sky and a dude sacrifices himself with a nuke skitz cunt style.
Life flashes before his eyes as he dies lmao
epic
The view of the nuke from below, from the survivors who fled and made it to the ocean below and land near aircraft carriers, see a bright flash close, like a sun.

The first nuke used







(???)
Tig went on a walk, for a smoke, at 02.46am
February winds had calmed enough for him to be able to leave the huddling shelter of his doorstep for a smoke excursion out around the block.
He stared at the moonlit sky before setting off, fumbling with a cheap lighter he'd scrounged amidst an assortment of items in his parka, and other routine habits one acquires when they live amongst the night, as we do.
A cigarette is like a friend, it accompanies you through thick and thin, is there to listen to your thoughts when none else will. Tig wrestled back and forth with ideas often when walking alone, headphones in. Right now a song played that he made his ringtone for his PDA in his earlier years. He was tricken aback with a flash of being followed, of being surrounded as he crossed the street, the song being a hex that he should be alert and answering to some as-of-yet unknown entity.
In reality he was just freaking out as usual because of the kerfuffle across the street mere moments ago making him a fraction more alert. One has to be alert at night, after all. Inner city violence escalates with each new decree, each new step in the grand plan for the rehabilitation of.. He remembered his childhood philosophy classes. Professor Kirche...

He wandered the education and residential districts at night, it was so peaceful to see a place of learning in times of bleakness. Small remnants of plantlife remained, scattered, withheld, yet still vastly unmaintained and overgrown in branch, but not leaf. At least, not leaves as one could describe them. After all, the Neo Ivy spreads by the day, an encroaching rot across most unprotected old world flora.

Tig approached his home once more, his cigarette having needed to be re-lit once more with each scant thought betwixt his journey.

[Next smokebreak]
Tig met a fellow at the traffic lights where the industrial trains of resources and recycleable waste were shipped back as per the UN's final charter on the 'maintenance on junk' that the losing power 

A pause by a fire with a bum leads to [mystery unfurling through exposition]

A kiss by a fireside later discusses this conversation.
Fire is the metaphor here?

Fingers numb, a layer of deep cold kept at bay by the fur and canvas of an ageing, modified Parka.
The logo of a band modded onto the back, and patches galore stretching down his left arm, and, eventually, a pauldron on his right.




	





You're in the decontamination area, being given questioning before being cleared to go off. You're being asked so many questions. This is an introduction.. amnesia after a long stint in the wilds.
Your new start.
Then you get transported away. To a better, but still bad place.
You're from the hellscape.
You need to go back.
Maximist hell.







I got talking to a bloke late night by a campfire on the comms, he was chatting shyte over a shared dram or two while we talked on open comms about what these lands used to be. Turns out this wee gadger used to be a geologist. He talked about how 'These lands used to be marshlands hundreds of years ago, flooded, wetland, lowlying. We even helped with canals to make our own routes of lowland water guidance, slowmoving, balanced, allowed to settle and fester and create carbon stores. We did the same thing, just with the city, after the bomb went pop.'

 He was telling me all sorts of stories.
He's seen people rounding up massively mutated farm animals with cars, using the cars like horseback or like sheepdogs to found bison sized cattle across to new pasture.
Motorbikes too.
New perennial grass breeds to feed on in the regions not hit by blight with scientific wondercrops, breeds to withstand, they say.
Lucky them.
Regions and classes are segregated by food. Rich can herd new cattle. Poor can't.
Scavenge.

Stomachs with legs pick up grasses and churn out fertiliser for fresh vegetables. Must be nice.Been so long since I've eaten proper vegetables, not tins, not preservatives, not frigging chips.


The riverbanks are higher than he remembers, apparently. Something about the glaciers renourishing themselves.

Some are empty, down in the droughtlands. farmlands and other such areas fucked about with, destroyed, it, trying to dredge new water where none was to be found when the bleak suns hit. Waters boiled about in the sun down in the lowlands, back in the days of UV.
But where keen farmers have worked, they've rejuvinated rivers by slowing the stream down and developing mires and boglands and carbon stores to get some biodiversity, some green, and from there, rebuilt a small ecosystem good enough for human living once more.


Outside in the light mists of twilight's dusk, under a pinkish-orange sky I chuck breadcrumbs out to the birds. I remember chicken soup tins being a mainstay of the food back then. Hans Soup. The pov dishes consisted of soup and bread, like serfish masses we consumed it, irrespective of where it came from. Those who didn't find food, died. The worst of the effects of the bombs were the months after, where people froze, starved, or shrivelled away in decay. The rest of my parents lot got rough with cancers and other afflictions, and burns got the last of them a few years back, save for those that could afford treatment in the regions that stabilised.






[Storyboard ideas inspired by The Expanse]
Flash-starts with katterin, trapped in a room, dying, choking on the poison of the coming apocalypse.
She sees, and weeps, but it does not appear to be sad when she cries out with a smile at the end.
[In reality, after this scene, a lot transpires, and a lot has happened BEFORE THIS, from which to write. Why is she smiling? Has she been looking for this already? Did her Dad send her here? Will she lead him here or did he send her?]

Cuts to Tig

for ages

and we only see hints of Katterin in one dream, and either online or in the world.



Cuts to Detective; a MERCENARY. Takes up the head of the richest heir in the isles, Katterin [Summerisle?]













The Merc tracks Katterin throughout the entire book, meets her once, and the interaction goes a way.
He starts off looking for her ship, her home, she's not there, does some minor tasks with locals [stealing water] and [selling narcotics, yanno interweave the story]

Later, when she is dying, and alone, he finds her again, and they die together, and he is made to understand why she chose to become the catalyst of destruction.
Tig's appreciation of the detective changes, and he despises everything his friend became, yet he is rendered a martyr nonetheless as one who stopped her from living, despite them both sharing their deathbed in reality. *A lie for the overall story to accept as it would be narrated in common knowledge, yet a secret known by the few of the crew.*
3



THE SCIENTIST
HIS EXPERIMENT IS UNLEASHED

"We have reached the limit of our knowledge, [we can only learn from it by letting it learn]"

[Where? An Island? In Orbit? The CRACKED MOON? The bottom of the ocean?]

The bottom of the ocean is the secret base, a facility only reachable once you repair your submarine and after the fleetbattle.

The scientist's brain was wilfully tampered to remove empathy, so he could continue with his holy task. Reclaim the earth for the catalyst of destruction.
The runes told of this spot, this exhaust vent, down in the deep.
A leviathan stirs, ready to be awakened, by a prophesised few, who travel into the cave [its mouth, it IS THE 'VENT']

When it is awakened, it does not immadiately attack, but retreats to the depths.

The scientist feels only relief when they see, and they are subsequently crushed by their chosen diety.

One of his minions is captured by the good guys, held by a neutral [hesitant yet militaristic] guy? who? establish characters], spouts exposition about the leviathan, is then much later taken by a gangster-syndicalist to create a new weapon, a goal which he cannot achieve. The brainwashed minion is of no use but for exposition now.


A child is taken. The father tracks alongside Tig's team, finding her.
[Observe the clip from 'The Expanse' in the folder]

The audio and music drops when he enters
thats brilliant
No words needed.
I'd make the child struggle more in the scene flashing before/after as to what the evil fuckers did with the child test subjects but NO WORDS.
Just audio filling in what you can see as horrible.
And suddenly I got chills.
We don't need to see.
Personally, I'd show the characters, then just have the aniamted camera pan to the door.
Then, it bursts, and back to the game.
Kill the quasi-fascist ultra-zeal science division and their demonic abominations.

(Or if the game is 














"Foxtrot Oscar Bravo 31-9er, if your sitrep is positive, key the handset twice."
*silence.*
They repeated a few times, I try my best to keep the speaker as covered as best I could with my gloves, reducing the volume of the intercom to a murmur, as they crept closer. 
I could hear them whispering now.


"Foxtrot Oscar Bravo, Three-One-Niner, if your sitrep is negative, key the handset once."
I squeezed the handle for the microphone hard; all my fear, all my worry fixated on crushing the handle. The speaker let out an agonisingly long static sound, and I did my best to keep this, too, silenced, by my other hand. I could smell the sweat on them now, they were close enough I thought they may hear my heart beating, could see the condensation if I breathe out even for just a moment. 
