We meet with a friend, who divulges some useful information.
Later on, we want to meet him again to ask him something, anything about this thing, which gets gloomier and deeper the more we learn of it, be it Void, Perseus, Politics, monsters covered up, the truth of something, the moves against a shadow organisation, anything.

This person will die in an incident just outside of a cutscene, killing them off as they were leaving hurriedly, after mentioning that 'they're coming, if you're clever, you'll run too. I've got to go.'

You see them walk off down the street and mid-dialogue with characters or running off to chase them, two open-world paths the player can choose, if you follow him, you see the glint of the bugger who gunned your friend down, and combat engages.

They die where, to what, envision it, we see in Utopia mr. reporter run away and end up on the news

We can have that happen here on the state news, where the death of the man will have been claimed in responsibility to quarantine control as the man was a known dissident bladibladibla for the sake of albrythica good vs bad mumbo jumbo
Or he can be framed for something and disappear after we see him get his throat cut in a dark alley at night
framed
never seen again





(rewrite)


"Come on, there's no need for us to be here any longer than necessary; on the double man, we'll get tac feedback as we achieve today's objectives. Move it, men! Tacpads at the ready!" He drew out a long and rehearsed series of half-intelligible gruntwords before bellowing "Syyyyyynchronise!" And we did, all at once. Screen tapped and the warzone's objectives laid out for our squads. The thrusters' howl above us shuddered my bones as the red pings began to flash up. 

Walking directly past me, the Colours Sergeant began at once, apparently spurred on from witnessing look of grimace written all over one of our mugs. I hoped it wasn't mine, but at times like this, I honestly struggle to contain the flashes and pangs my face goes through, and on three sticks of Ripperfuel and enough niccotine gum to suffice for the two extra days I'm going to have to be awake for, all in my mouth now, all choking me as the shuttle begins hissing, closer towards whatever is beyond the door. 
"Looks like we've got some drone coverage for this one, lads. Prioritise clusters of the map pinged with high intensity nodes by command. We've got you behind the lines, you can guarantee that once your feet hit the ground." 
Thin pangs of light shine across old Colours' back, through the slim gunnerside window that offers the only streams of lighting on this dim drop. People begin sounding off as he concludes his reassuring briefing, all while the hissing of the engines skrikes away our position.

"Weapons, ready!"

I feel the tap on my back, the straps pulled in for my suit, by the logistics team. They're kitting us out for this one, but [Shield's] always getting the juicy loot. Thats the perk of having command grant your every request for new tech. I feel the assistant plug in a drive into my shouldermount, they heft themselves down onto their knees and stuff it into our shoulders and move onto the next quickly, and effectively, but their knees stumble as they stand up, and down, to reach each member of the team down on the drop platforms of the aircraft.

"Data, ready!"
"Comms, Ready!"

I pick up my helmet from aside me, charged enough for a few days of datastreaming. 

"Recon, Ready!"

I affix it with minimal effort, the screen blinking on. Live transmission, suit adjusting.

"Fire Support, Ready!"

My suit gives the green light; I'm jacked into Command, and I'm ready to rock.

My turn to yell; "Sentry, Ready to rock, sir!" 

The panels to the side of the dropbay open slightly, and we hear the full extent of the screech as the craft leans to a horizontal angle. The gust of wind from this sends a shiver down my skin, through the layers of clothing not fully covered by armour, or compressed under the sweaty heft of these computers.

I step forwards as the colours stamps his foot on the green light switch.

"Ready to roll, men! All play and no work makes for dull boys. Put your backs into it, for the North!" 

Logistics team... (adding additional hardware and percolades of deployment to those that they reckon have earned them while out on deployment. Bonus loot for good job, given by state or by people who have things to offer :) )

[later]

"We slumped back into the seats of the waiting area aboard one of the larger vessels, feeling it move beneath us as the sound of a harmonica droaned inbetween the silent sporadic twitchings of those of us that came back. Not many took to talking, everyone just, kind of sat, thought for a while. Least that's what I was doing. Everyone was keeping to themselves, when all of a sudden..."



There's a monster, who inhabits people, they're not as they seem, they have a few off features

IN DOCTOR WHO, they SNIFF AND STARE
SNIFFING FOR HOSTS, like TIME LORDS and that

Here
they..

They want memory, knowledge, they feed on it

Later on, a character can explain their choice of hosts by
"Why did he want me?"
"A low level telepathic field, you were born with it"
An extra synaptic catalyst or something
the magic awakening in the population

And these people feeed on it