Tomás, this is Tomás speaking.

I foresee a woman, a woman in my future, a woman with the bliss and comfort of Jsoe and the intrigue and playfulness of Spho. I See ashen hair, with a hint of ginger and blonde short hair to mask over in their refined years. Ginger is the age of fire, ashen personality, the scorn and passion of woman, blonde for the refined, ashen for the sorrow and recovery 

With a woman, nights fly by while you think of what to say.
it culminates in the moment you witness yourself saying what you want to say to someone, besides the smalltalk, in the quiet moments when you are truly soul to soul instead of scared person to scared person. That is, if you live inwards, like I seem to.

A woman, with the complexity and innocence you seem to believe you need, with a tender soul with which will truly resonate, and a complexity of mind that will humour oneself throughout time, to pose new questions while still trusting oneself in their shared security and goals of loyalty for eachothers and their individuals sake.



Booklore

True love lies in caring for ones kin, for caring amongst those one deems as those they feel familiar to, be it through shared county, nationality, ethnicity, religion, etc.
In the end, all humanity wants to unite under a shared banner of peace, but nobody knows which bannder, oh but we don't know which.
-----Which peaceful banner will we fight over, Perseus ponders, locked in isolation. A new fatal flaw of the human to fall for as one pursues self-interest in the short term allured by long-term security.
But still, the singular is compelled to seek out others, to seek out the like-mind.
Love is a funny thing, in that it aims to seek out honestly, a like-mind in a sense.
That's all a hivemind is, belief in an idea greater than your own love for yourself.




Look to Russiya, the love for the heartland grows strong. The people feel kinship not through nationality, but through shared connection to the land, with Krais acting as nations in of themselves and as independent sub-entitites of the collective of the Heartland, the Border People of the interior of the culture. A shared love between these people, interwined amongst feud, as we see in Anglo-Irish relations.