(This book will focus on the deeds of the Syndicalists and their routes through a monologue and confession from a prominent revolutionary, 
criticising New Order propaganda and surviving through near-miss encounters with the authorities. While doing this, he helps do some good deeds, or so he claims, and professes the good of the people in the (sattelite commune towns.)

His fate extends beyond this book, but this is his most significant account, and he dies, as Trotsky does, after settling the war in Poland and assessing the Soviet for a little while, he dies, a martyr's death, through twisting fates with someone whom resents him.
The division in the left is factionalistic even after the civil war, but he dies hoping peace will come to the left once more.
He doesn't die at the end of *this* book, but in another book.)


The left are construed into opression by their own system; their regional government is not doing what it should, and the 'Leftist' (Northerners) begin vote-rebelling against the (Labour-and-Syndicate Union Party), and this ignites a civil war between the Menshevik civilians, the Communist agitated Sheffielders, and the worker commune rural towns and sattelite towns (which by the way get hinted at as being expanded to by the Communists, infiltrating. foreshadowing.)

He then becomes conscripted, to avoid detection. 
(One can unofficially volunteer for conscription, which is a law abuse that gets used. all. the time. because they want conscripts.)

And cannot escape.
It was his only escape, 
but now he cannot escape.

Oppression is worse in the conscripted brigades, which are, to the dismay of the syndicalist unions, under their purview of management (in this unequal compromise of government. When the war breaks out, inside, the conscrips almost all unanimously and immediately switch to the side that guarantees them liberty afterwards, the workers party, the syndicalists, who believes in building up and around the nuclear sites, not expending resources and lives to exploit them further, as the Revolutionary encounters in his work.
His Syndicalist friends in the conscripts ease his passing, and he climbs the ranks as someone who innately believes many of the values, though upon reaching more official positions in the bureaucracy of the syndicates.
He climbs, but meets opposition.
Foreshadow this with some omen of death or conflict.


(Before Apocalypse)
for Leftists
the Seed of Revolution was tangible; successive governments of the (Labour-and-Syndicate Union Party), a part youth militia, part Left Unionist national guard wing, formed in the Global Crisis (ww1) days, when battalions of factory workers were summoned, an act decreed this. The same is true of the Right Wing, with the Constabulary, and Youth Brigades and later fasco-conservative militias formed.
Though the Fifth Column was eventually vivisected everywhere but the South-East, after the bombs fell. 
(Embers still might burn?)

Seeds of revolution, victory was for the civilians, sitting at home. For us, win or lose, it means absolutely nothing, beyond delaying or bringing forward our timely demise.
I envy being one of those who wasn't selected, plucked, to be part of the brigade, for the good of our survival.
They pass us by and shine in their fancy parades, saying how grateful they are the New Order's selectiveness for our Brigades is egalitarian. Celebrating the good of the new order. The militia felt no joy in victory, with brothers dead all around, after months of horror with the reality of warfare being that conscripts are conscripts, no matter if plucked from a bag of dying irradiated civilians, or from reservists, as was the case in pre-Bombardment warfare.

The worker's haven't forgotten, and for many, little has changed.
The very old and very young died, but those that learned crafts from their parents, or in education prolong the memory of technologies and industries.
(Sheffield is city of Steel) which is nuked, however those that escape all establish rival steel industries, which compete for lower prices to rebuild through gritty labour, sure, but which incentivise growth throughout the North, while draining on manpower in the nuked years.
Steel mills that have rusted over rise anew. The last legs of the old Imperial industrial generation contributed to a rebirth, a rennaisance, of all industry, as to survive, reindustrialisation, and collectivisation, were the end and mean.

A confederation of surviving regions of the Bombardment, with underlying resentment between who got squat when it all came to shove.


The civil war against the Commune was tough, but the Syndicalists win in the end.


